Kirstenbosch Summer Sunset Concerts in association with Old Mutual released the list of artistes performing in the upcoming season and features a diverse mix of genres with fresh, exciting new talent on offer, as well as many much-loved favourites. The concert season, which starts on Sunday 24 November 2019, has become a much anticipated top outdoor music event in Cape Town, where families and friends flock in their droves to soak up world-class live music in a unique and awe-inspiring open-air setting. Kirstenbosch welcomes Old Mutual back as a main sponsor of the Kirstenbosch Summer Sunset Concerts 2019/2020 season and thanks the City of Cape Town for providing additional support and services. “We are delighted to be sponsoring the Kirstenbosch Summer Sunset Concerts once again, music is a universal language that allows people to connect with each other as well as with their own emotions and dreams. It also gives us an opportunity to inspire people to do great things everyday and amplify their financial notes.” said Thobile Tshabalala Head of Old Mutual Brand. Diverse mix of artists The 2019/2020 line-up kicks off with Crimson House who will be launching their Bounceology album, the show promises to deliver a sensational mix of afro-balkan, gypsy blues and cabaret rock that is designed to make you bounce! Newcomers to KBrocks – Southern Wild will open the stage for Crimson house with their alternative rock shifting between rock, neo-soul and folk. This inaugural show leads the way for a diverse range of exceptional artistes such as Jo Black, Craig Lucas, Paxton Fielies, Black Motion, Amanda Black, Kwesta, Sjava, Prince Kaybee, Sho Madjozi, Shekinah, Unathi and Hip Hop sensation AKA – who is taking to the Kirstenbosch stage for the first time. Favourites that will be back again include Spoegwolf, Matthew Mole, Sun El Musician and Simmy, Lady Zamar, Jeremy Loops, Goldfish, Jimmy Nevis, Mi Casa, Goodluck, Tresor and Watershed – who will be kicking off their 20 year anniversary tour. The Cape Town Folk ‘n Acoustic Music Festival will be taking place once again, as well as the much loved Christmas Carols, hosted by the Rotary. In addition to this, a special New Year’s Eve concert is scheduled with performances from Freshlyground, who will be joined by Nomadic Orchestra and Native Young. This will be the last time that Freshlyground will be playing together and promises a not to be forgotten end to 2019. On 22 March a fresh new addition has been added to Kirstenbosch Summer Sunset Concerts Line-Up – The Cape Town Opera starring Ms Pumeza Matshikiza, who has won the hearts of audience members in the world’s great opera houses (including London, Milan and Paris). This summer, Capetonians will have a rare opportunity to hear Ms Matshikiza on home soil for an evening of gorgeous classical and African arias and duets, with the Cape Town Opera Chorus and the Cape Town Philharmonic Orchestra under the baton of Maestro Jeremy Silver. The concert line-up winds down with the smooth jazz tunes of Andrew Young and Don Vino – with guest vocalists Amy Jones, Gavin Minter and Selim Kagee joining them on stage.   If you are looking for enthralling entertainment this summer season in Cape Town, be sure to add the #KBRocks experience to your weekend plans. Bring family and friends, pack a picnic (or pre-order 5 days in advance from the Kirstenbosch Tea Room or Moyo Restaurant Kirstenbosch) and relax on the lawns listening to world-class musical performances with Table Mountain as the backdrop. Moyo food trucks will also be offering freshly made burgers, boerie rolls, chipstix, beverages and snacks – so make sure you come hungry! Book tickets online at www.webtickets.co.za.