Adding excitement to the news of the inaugural WTM Africa Travel & Tourism Awards at #WTMA20 is an announcement that the category winners will automatically be nominated for entry into the International Travel & Tourism Awards 2020 at WTM London. The WTM Africa Travel & Tourism Awards are set to shine a spotlight on exceptional individuals and businesses which have written the most compelling stories in the book of African travel and shared the African tale of a continent full of vibrancy, life, soul and heart.
Themed ‘Under African Skies’, the inaugural Awards celebrate the best of national, regional and city tourist boards and recognises outstanding private sector companies and individuals in 12 categories, judged by an independent panel of industry experts. The category winners will have their entries put forward to the International Travel & Tourism Awards 2020, which form part of World Travel Market London, the world’s leading global travel trade event. 5 000 exhibitors covering destinations, technology and private sector companies take part over 3 days each year, doing business with 51 000 travel professionals, key industry buyers, journalists, digital influencers, students and Tourism Ministers. It is estimated that £3 billion of business will be generated as a result of WTM London this year. Enter your story – or one you just can’t help sharing – in one of the 12 WTM Africa Travel & Tourism Awards categories before 29 November 2019. Only campaigns executed in the period 1 January 2018 to 28 November 2019 will be eligible for the 2020 WTM Africa Travel & Tourism Awards. Two South African Tourism campaigns have been shortlisted at the 2019 edition of the International Travel & Tourism Awards, the winners of which will be announced on 5 November 2019 at the brand new Magazine London. The International Travel & Tourism Awards in London provide a platform to honour the front-runners in travel and tourism across 15 categories, judged by a carefully selected independent, international panel of judges with extensive travel & tourism expertise.
‘Discover Your South Africa’ (by The Brighter Group) is nominated in the ‘Best Destination Campaign – Country’ and the digital version of the campaign (by Ginger Juice) is up for an award in the ‘Best Digital Campaign in Tourism’ category. SA Tourism’s ‘Discover Your South Africa’ is an experiential out-of-home campaign, launched across five UK cities in 2018 to inspire holidaymakers to visit the destination. Wearing EEG brain-reading technology, consumers were tasked with walking through a series of rooms that showcased the destination’s key pillars. This helped identify each user’s unique travelling style and created their ideal South Africa itinerary from their subconscious preferences. SAT collaborated with Trailfinders and Virgin Atlantic so these itineraries could be booked on site. As a result, 2,010 unique leads were captured with a 77% interest in booking a holiday to South Africa. The digital version of the campaign showcases South Africa’s diversity and helps prospective visitors choose the perfect trip. The ‘Discover Your South Africa’ digital campaign featured 36 eye-catching Instagram-style square images in 9 sections, highlighting the country’s diverse scenery; food & wine; culture; city life and wildlife; each themed around the colours of the Rainbow Nation. Over 17,000 people took part to discover THEIR South Africa. The 2020 edition of WTM Africa takes place in Cape Town from 6-9 April. For more information visit www.africa.wtm.com