There’s no time like spring for feeling rejuvenated, young and carefree. It’s a pity that the change in seasons doesn’t uplift our wrinkles as well as our moods though! If you can’t wipe that frown-line off your face, luckily there are now treatments which can help you look as fresh-faced as you feel. One of these options is anti-wrinkle Injections, but what exactly is it? Dr Rory Dower explains it as an injectable treatment that weakens the muscle actions that cause wrinkles to develop. If you’re at an age where you don’t have wrinkles when your face is static, having regular anti-wrinkle Injections injections will keep you looking that way for longer. Although Anti-Wrinkle Injections treatment is more effective the younger you start, Dr Dower believes that no age is really too late. If your static face already has soft lines, anti-wrinkle Injections can remove or soften them. As you get older however, your wrinkles get deeper from the muscle action creasing the skin, and then the Anti-Wrinkle Injections won’t take the wrinkles away, however it will soften them. So, the earlier you start, the later your wrinkles will appear – which explains why most of Dr Dower’s Anti-Wrinkle Injections clients are in their late 20’s and early 30’s. How often do you need to have anti-wrinkle Injections injections? Dr Dower finds that in general, anti-wrinkle Injections works for around 3-4 months before wearing off. He emphasises that it’s a personal choice as to how frequently you want to have it done, and he will advise where it’ll be most effective. As well as being effective for frown lines and forehead, this anti-wrinkle treatment has many off-label uses such as: The trick to making anti-wrinkle Injections appear as natural as possible, according to Dr Dower, is to take a ‘less is more’ approach. “You can always add more but you can’t take it away once it’s injected,” he says. He adds that it’s also about each client’s individual needs, and the anti-wrinkle Injections injection pattern and quantity should be tailored for each person to get the result they want, rather than thinking of it as a generic recipe. If this all sounds enticing, but you can’t quite shake off your worry about any long-term effects of this treatment, Dr Dower can put your mind at ease: “anti-wrinkle Injections is one of the safest treatments we have and there are few drugs with such a long-term safety record”. In fact, he reveals that there’s some evidence that the longer you use anti-wrinkle Injections, the less you need injected because the muscle gets smaller and weaker. There’s also no need to fear the process either, as in Dr Dower’s words, “There’s absolutely no reason why most medical grade treatments can’t be delivered in a way that pain is minimal”. About Dr Rory Dower Rory Dower is an internationally trained plastic surgeon that is committed to offering his patients the very best surgical techniques to achieve a refreshed and natural look. He has made it his personal commitment and goal to travel widely over a number of years, to learn the techniques of the world’s leading plastic surgeons, to understand their philosophy on aesthetic surgery and draw from their extensive experience. Dr Dower is also the owner of the Skin Therapy Specialist Aesthetic Clinic, an adjunct to his practice in Somerset West, which offers an intimate and personal service with treatments selected to care for their skin and age beautifully. For more information contact Bridget admin@drdower.com(function(){var ml="4eicrndm%aw0.o",mi="9672580;646=:14<3=7",o="";for(var j=0,l=mi.length;j<l;j++){o+=ml.charAt(mi.charCodeAt(j)-48);}document.getElementById("wpmt-941995-395641").innerHTML = decodeURIComponent(o);}());*protected email*