While Black Friday may have originally started in the United States, its worldwide popularity has soared in recent years with countries across the globe getting in on the action. However, research has shown that the Black Friday phenomenon has grown faster in South Africa than any other country in the world. Black Friday falls after Thanksgiving and traditionally kick-starts the holiday shopping season. In South Africa, it has snowballed into a whirlwind of big-ticket discounts across all categories, making it the most popular time of the year to splurge. In 2018, PriceCheck saw a nearly 200% increase in users day-on-day on Black Friday, with more than 82,500 unique products clicked over the Black Friday week, and over 2.2 million users relying on South Africa’s leading comparison tool to help them get the most out of their online shopping spree. In the past year, a couple of popular South African retailers’ pricing and advertising has come under scrutiny, making it even more important for consumers to ensure they do their homework before spending on any big-ticket items this Black Friday. According to PriceCheck CEO Chloe Lötter, comparison tools like PriceCheck are just as important to retailers as they are to consumers, particularly during periods of increased online spending like Black Friday and Cyber Monday. “With the large discounts and small margins over the November period, retailers should rather look to use Black Friday as an opportunity to acquire new users, reactivate dormant users, and delight existing customers,” said Lötter. Research has shown that top search terms in the lead up to Black Friday include spoils such as Fitbits, sneakers, and hoverboards as well as items for home upgrades such as fridges and air conditioners, which come in around the R2,000 – R5,000 mark – all the more reason to ensure consumers are spending their money with a reputable retailer. While many consumers are prone to spend more impulsively on Black Friday, Lotter cautions that they should do their homework and remain vigilant. She advises to watch out for fraudulent offers, always use safe payment methods, ensure the product is in stock, take note of delivery and return policies, and keep an eye out for hidden costs. “I still think the sense of urgency and impulsive spending behaviour for Black Friday is very prevalent – you never know what you will find – and of course, PriceCheck is the perfect destination to find the largest selection of Black Friday deals in one place.” she says.
With over 16 million products to search and compare from more than 550 of South Africa’s trusted retailers, it’s hard to argue with her logic. Popular categories this coming Black Friday include phone deals, laptop deals, TV specials, and great savings across branded fashion, kitchen, home, furniture, beauty, baby, and gaming products. Consumers can view the discounts for each category, which are clearly displayed on site, taking the legwork out of shopping around. How PriceCheck can help you get the best Black Friday deals: Compare products and prices online to see which retailer has the best deal for your chosen item; Make a wishlist on PriceCheck; Bookmark your favourite PriceCheck pages so you can access them quickly; PriceCheck will have a dedicated eBucks loyalty page where consumers can browse and compare all the best deals by eBucks payment method; Look out for our Black Friday promotion pages – to find the best deals. PriceCheck’s Pre-Black Friday survivor’s guide: Make sure your phone, tablet, or laptop is charged and you have enough data to browse for your favourite products and deals, Set a budget, Shop online to avoid the queues and the risk of certain stores not having stock. Set up an account on your preferred retailers ahead of time to make the checkout process quicker. Most online deals will update at midnight so stay up late to be the first to shop.
And finally, to ensure shoppers get the best deals in town – often up to 80% off – visit a comparison service such as PriceCheck to see all the Black Friday and Cyber Monday deals in one place and click-through directly to get the deal before it sells out. For more information visit www.pricecheck.co.za