Winter has announced itself properly with these chilly days, yet igniting the desire for hearty food and wine experiences. Benguela Cove certainly has a few offerings up its sleeve running all the way through winter. First up, Benguela Cove is taking part in two annual celebrations that guests can experience at cellar door: Seven Days of Shiraz and Venison as well as Hermanus FynArts festival. Shiraz and Venison It has become increasingly trendy to make carpaccio from game and venison. With 28 farms participating in the annual Seven Days of Shiraz and Venison festival at their own cellar doors, Benguela Cove will be running its offering from 10 June until 17 June. To celebrate this winter favourite, Chef Annie Badenhorst has hunted down beautiful meats to add an exotic twist to their cool climate Syrah wines: Moody Lagoon Red Blend 2017 paired with Ostrich Carpaccio; Benguela Cove Syrah 2017 paired with Springbok Carpaccio; and the Lighthouse Syrah 2017 paired with Warthog Carpaccio. Hermanus FynArts It is almost time for creatives to turn Hermanus into a spectacle of visual arts. Gracing the gateway to the Walker Bay just 18km before Hermanus, Benguela Cove should be your first stop to embark on this annual food and wine festival. Being an avid art lover and collector herself, the owner of Benguela Cove, Penny Streeter OBE, has followed the career of artist Floris van Zyl whose art is displayed in several venues on the estate. This year Streeter invited him to present a solo exhibition at the tasting room for the duration of Hermanus FynArts that promise to engage the viewer on many levels. The exhibition, Anamalia, will officially be opened on 8th June and run until the 16th of June and can be viewed between 11:00 and 18:00 every day. It explores our animal side, instincts, fears and our survival in shared environments and it highlights how connected we are. Artist walkabouts can be requested for the duration of the exhibition. Art Three Ways: Saturday 15th June: 11:30 – 15:00 What should happen if you invite your pet to dinner? Or if your horse shows up groomed and suited for the occasion? Expect to be surprised and treated to a delightful 5 course dinner paired with awarded wines and riveting art pieces. Join us for this delicious and thought provoking experience of how art becomes alive on your plate, in your glass and on the walls. Only 50 seats are available and tickets are sold at R750pp. This includes a viewing of the art with the artist, complemented by arrival drinks and canapés, followed by a curated lunch paired with art and wine. For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za