Enjoy some time out at Spier Wine Farm this winter while the kids get crafty. From 15-29 June 2019, Canvas Club will be offering fun-filled arts and crafts classes for children aged between 18 months and 13 years old. These boredom-beating sessions will nurture your little one’s creativity and problem-solving skills, encourage self-expression and develop fine motor skills. In keeping with Spier’s commitment to a greener future, only recyclable and sustainable materials will be used. There are two kinds of classes: LITTLE ADVENTURERS for kids aged from 18 months up to 6 years old 45min | R100 per class | Accompanied by an adult Imagine, create, experiment and make new friends! With an emphasis on sensory play and process art, these classes are social, educational and great fun for both child and parent/carer. CREATIVE CRAFTERS for kids aged 6 to 13 years old 60 min | Drop-off In these classes, kids are encouraged to express their ideas through the process of working with different materials, designing, building, making mistakes, and envisioning creative solutions. Toys such as robots and musical instruments are often created in this class. Not only does this promote self-esteem (“I made that all by myself!”), but the toys also promise hours of play after class. All sessions cost just R100 per child and bookings are essential. View time-slots and book classes at https://www.canvas.club/spier. How will you spend your free time at Spier? Here are a few ideas on how to make the most of your time on the farm: Enjoy some time out at Spier Wine Farm this winter while the kids get crafty. From 15-29 June 2019, Canvas Club will be offering fun-filled arts and crafts classes for children aged between 18 months and 13 years old. These boredom-beating sessions will nurture your little one’s creativity and problem-solving skills, encourage self-expression and develop fine motor skills. In keeping with Spier’s commitment to a greener future, only recyclable and sustainable materials will be used. There are two kinds of classes: LITTLE ADVENTURERS for kids aged from 18 months up to 6 years old 45min | R100 per class | Accompanied by an adult Imagine, create, experiment and make new friends! With an emphasis on sensory play and process art, these classes are social, educational and great fun for both child and parent/carer. CREATIVE CRAFTERS for kids aged 6 to 13 years old 60 min | Drop-off In these classes, kids are encouraged to express their ideas through the process of working with different materials, designing, building, making mistakes, and envisioning creative solutions. Toys such as robots and musical instruments are often created in this class. Not only does this promote self-esteem (“I made that all by myself!”), but the toys also promise hours of play after class. All sessions cost just R100 per child and bookings are essential. View time-slots and book classes at https://www.canvas.club/spier. How will you spend your free time at Spier? Here are a few ideas on how to make the most of your time on the farm:  