The Children’s Hospital Trust hosted schools, Trust ambassadors, Zoë Brown, Gary Gold, Mujahid George, Jawaahier Petersen, Madeegha Anders, Angel Campey, Guy McDonald and the Magic 828 radio team, Stormers players (Salmaan Moerat & Ruhan Nel), past patients, parents, Cape Town media, Hospital management and staff, at an iconic event on Friday, 14 June 2019 where they wrapped and decorated the Hospital’s fence with an enormous red ribbon. One of the Hospital’s recent patients, 11-year old Blaze Phieffer from Lotus River in Cape Town, shared her incredible story for the first time. Blaze was the recipient of a double-transplant (kidney and liver) that took place in February this year.  This type of operation takes place very rarely and seeing her speak at this event, it has been a great success.  Blaze has been in and out of Hospital since she was 4 and after 7 years, treatment was failing, and she was given 6 months to live. “I stopped working to look after her and tears fill our eyes each time we think about our journey and the moments that once looked like defeat. She had a few months to live and now our daughter will be fine again!” Byron Koopman, Blaze’s father. At the event, The Trust officially welcomed Gary Gold, Head Coach for USA Rugby Team going to the Rugby World Cup as their latest ambassador. Gary has had a personal connection with the Hospital since he was a teenager. “One afternoon in 1985, after school I looked out of the window and suddenly noticed our housekeeper’s baby lying at the bottom of the pool!  I immediately jumped in, tried to resuscitate her, then ran to the neighbour for help. After driving to the closest doctor who turned us away, we fortunately arrived at Red Cross Children’s Hospital’s Trauma Unit where she was attended to immediately and I am delighted to say that she survived,” said Gary Gold.  “The Hospital is a very special place and I am passionate about helping the Trust to raise the much-needed funds to help heal children in Africa holistically.” The Trust has embarked on their Leave Your Mark on Life Campaign to raise R150 million by 2020, and through this activation, they are appealing to the public to help contribute towards the outstanding amount which currently sits at R72 million. The ribbon will remain an iconic feature for months to come and is a true reflection of the doctors, nurses and staff who are so dedicated to “wrapping their arms” around the hundreds and thousands of children who visit the Hospital each year. Visit www.childrenshospitaltrust.org.za to donate. SMS “life” to donate R30 to 40465.