Wondering what to do with the kids on a cold wet day these winter holidays? Look no further than a watery adventure under the sea with an adaptation of Hans Christian Andersen’s tale of The Little Mermaid. The captivating story of curiosity, friendship and love that crosses all borders, will feature a stand out cast, magnificent costumes, breath-taking sets and charmed puppets that will thrill the whole family in a magical musical makeover at this year’s Canal Walk Theatre. Taking place in the Canal Walk Theatre from 5 June – 7 July 2019 a portion of the proceeds will be donated to the Santa Shoebox Project as part of Canal Walk’s corporate social responsibility. The Santa Shoebox Project provides toys, toiletries, clothing, sweet treats and school supplies to underprivileged children. Fred Abrahamse and Marcel Meyer have once again come up trumps with a noteworthy production for which, they have composed the music and lyrics, as well as directed. The pair have often commented on how important their winter theatre productions are in encouraging tomorrow’s loyal theatre audience. With this production, the very young and those who are more mature, will be spirited away on a watery adventure with Alexis Petersen as the eponymous mermaid. Miss Petersen was most recently seen onstage in David Kramer’s hit musical Langarm at the Fugard Theatre. Recently returning to South Africa from a sell-out world tour of with Andrew Lloyd Webber’s classic musical Evita, Cindy-Ann Abrahams will play the deliciously, villainous Sea Witch, while Fleur du Cap Award winner, Edith Plaatjies will grace the stage in the role of the Dowager Queen. Apart from being a sought-after vocalist, Miss Plaatjies’ many theatre credits include her award-winning turn in King Kong at the Fugard and Mandela Trilogy at the Artscape Opera House. Matthew Baldwin as the handsome young Prince will make hearts flutter. Mr Baldwin has often collaborated with Abrahamse & Meyer Productions, playing leading roles in several of their Shakespeare and Tennessee Williams plays in Europe, America and South Africa. The role of the Mermaid’s father, The King, falls to Marcel Meyer who has just picked up a Best Actor nomination at the Naledi Theatre Awards in Gauteng for his portrayal of Shakespeare’s Macbeth. Rounding out the cast are Alexander Tops (Fatal Attraction, Show Boat, Sondheim’s Assassins), Rebecca Hartle (2019 Naledi Award nominee for her performance in the hit musical Avenue Q) and, Shakir Bester. Celebrate Christmas in July this Mandela Day by packing Santa Shoeboxes at Canal Walk for the Santa Shoebox Project. For more information visit www.canalwalk.co.za