Sunny winter days offer enjoyment along the historic Spier Werf, where children can play freely on natural rock formations. Colder days book you a spot inside near the cosy fireplaces or on the popular bakery terrace amongst the bustle of the bakers. Vadas Smokehouse & Bakery offer seating options for the entire family, come rain or shine. With a new winter menu, guests can also enjoy the Vadas Smokehouse & Bakery winter special. From Monday-Saturday, Vadas is slicing 50% off its Chefs Platter. For just R200 pp feast on 8 dishes carefully selected by Chef PJ to showcase the best of what’s on the menu.
New on the winter menu includes Roast pumpkin & sage arancini with cheese custard; corn battered Jalapeño chillies stuffed with feta & served with chipotle aioli; smoked brisket and BBQ sauce; Kansas-city pulled pork; beets with feta, naartjies, dukkha and elderflower and the ever-popular fire roasted broccoli with mustard cider vinaigrette, smoked Stanford cheese & macadamia nuts. The revamped menu now boasts indicators of which dishes are gluten free, vegetarian and vegan on request, ensuring there is something on the menu for everyone to enjoy.
Although chef PJ Vadas has become increasingly favored by his vegetarian regulars for innovative meat-free dishes, the restaurant still offers the best BBQ meats in SA. All meats are cooked fresh every day in the custom smoker for 12-16 hours. The highlight being the Vadas smoked beef brisket, Texas-style! Beneath the perfectly seasoned crust is the most tender, juicy meat you have to taste to believe. Other favourites include the smoked pork belly and fried chicken with truffle aioli. Friday evenings, in addition to their regular menu, Vadas showcases their stoneground Pizzas with options such as The Fat Butcher: bianco base with creamed leaks, salsa verde, bone marrow, thyme and smoked cheddar or The Porky: tomato base with buffalo mozzarella, Farmer Angus bacon, avo and feta. Available every morning from 7am – 11am, Vadas offers their French-style Bakers Breakfast. Appreciate freshly baked farm loaves and delicate, flaky croissants with farm butter and house-made jams. Delight in cheese and bacon breadsticks, egg and ham cups and spiced buns. A selection of Dalewood cheese is available to enjoy with Farmer Angus charcuterie direct from the Spier farm. A barista serves your favourite cuppa and from 7am-9am you can enjoy all coffees for only R15. Don’t forget about Vadas’ now famous Pastéis de Nata; the much-loved Portuguese custard tarts which many claim are the best in the world! Stay up to date with daily specials and new dishes by following Vadas Smokehouse & Bakery on Instagram @vadas_smokehouse or Facebook @vadassmokehouse The bakers breakfast is open from 7am – 11am 7 days a week. For lunch and dinner, kitchen operating hours: Monday to Saturday 12pm – 3pm & 6pm – 9pm and Sundays 12pm – 3pm For bookings contact 021 809 1137 or visit www.vadas.co.za