In an exciting new SA venture, Norval Foundation is granting free all-day access to art and culture in its gallery spaces and sculpture gardens on every First Thursday of the month, thanks to an annual partnership with Coca Cola Peninsula Beverages. First Thursdays will run for the course of a year and will provide crucial public access to art exhibitions that display the best of SA and African contemporary art. All over the world, brands are starting to acknowledge the cultural impact and social value of art museums and cultural institutions, realising that they can play a role in the cultural lives of society. By partnering with museums, not only are they investing in the future of arts and culture, but ultimately investing in the lives of their customers. “We are very excited and honored to follow in global footsteps with this partnership and to have Coca Cola Peninsula Beverages as our sponsor for Free First Thursdays at Norval Foundation. We look forward to welcoming all visitors to our galleries and gardens and trust that this is the beginning of a long and mutually beneficial partnership and journey,” says Elana Brundyn, Norval Foundation Chief Executive. Located in the heart of the Cape Winelands in the Constantia Valley, Norval Foundation is a new center for art cultural expression that is dedicated to the exhibition of art and sculpture that is of a global standard. After-hours access on First Thursdays will allow for public access to this cultural environment that is closely intertwined with the natural splendor of the Western Cape Fynbos biome. “We’ve always been big fans of various after-hours museum programmes that make cultural institutions more accessible to the public. Free access is one thing, but it’s also the sociable nature of these events that have a big impact on developing new audiences for the arts. We would love to see more corporate sponsors partner with other cultural institutions to build on the initiative of Free First Thursdays at Norval Foundation,” says Gareth Pearson, co-founder of First Thursdays and Museum Night. Be sure to plan your visit to Norval Foundation to gain free access to galleries and sculpture gardens on Norval Foundation Free First Thursdays from 10am – 8pm, with last admission at 7:15pm.