Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate is ready to unpack its cool climate treasure trove. If anybody wants to taste what cellar master Johann Fourie has been up to since the state of the art cellar was completed in 2017, then this is your chance. Treasure Benguela sees the inaugural event where Benguela Cove will share its latest releases, as well as brand new cellar gems. Known for being ambitious, conquering the can’t-do’s with a serious dollop of creativity, visitors are in for a treat.  Fourie will unveil a special range of wines that celebrate the relationship between winemaker and nature: Vinography. With only 370 to 600 bottles made of each wine in this range, it will be the first or maybe the last time that the public will have the opportunity to taste them. Wine Club member will receive preference to buy limited releases at the event. Another gem to be discovered with only 1500 bottles made, is the long awaited SA Platter’s Five star winner – Benguela Cove Catalina Semillon 2017. This wine commemorates the Catalina flying boats that used the adjacent lagoon as a landing base during WW2. This wine will only be sold on allocation of three bottles presented in a wooded case. Only 100 sets will be made available to the public on the 6th April. To share this ongoing discovery, visitors will be enticed to a wine treasure hunt at their own leisure while having a fun day with family and friends. Wine treasure hunters will receive a glass and a treasure map to guide them along the way. There will be 20 wines to taste at different locations within the parameters of the facilities. It is up to you to collect all the gems and stand the chance to win a treasure. While the adults make their wine discoveries, kids (under parent supervision) are encouraged to come dressed in pirate costumes and play Pirate Adventure Golf. Entrance of R35 – R90 applied depending on age and all grants them access to the Benguela Splash. Fast foods and tasting room platters will be for sale, The Tea Terrace will be open for afternoon tea or guests can book a table for lunch or dinner at the Moody Lagoon Restaurant. When: Saturday 6 April 2019, 12pm – 5pm Where: Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate, R43, 18km before Hermanus Price: Tickets are available from Computicket at R200 per person. This includes entrance to the event, live music and a treasure map and wine glass to taste and collect the gems. www.benguelacove.co.za | +27 (0) 87 357 063 | info@benguelacove.co.za7 Read more articles