Cape Town Air Access
congratulates Cape Town International Airport for receiving the Best Airport
in Africa award at the 2019 Skytrax World Airports Awards last night. This is the fourth year
running that Cape Town International has won this prestigious award. The Cape Town Air Access
partnership brings together the public and private sector to help secure direct
routes into Cape Town. To date, the initiative has helped land 8 new
international airlines, 13 new direct routes and 19 route expansions, resulting
in more than 1.5 million two-way seats being added into Cape Town International. Despite a challenging
year, Cape Town International Airport welcomed 2,6 million international
passengers in 2018, representing a 9,6% growth from 2017. Congratulating ACSA on
this prestigious achievement, the Executive Mayor of the City of Cape Town, Dan
Plato said: “I think it is fantastic that Cape Town International has again
scooped this very prestigious award. I must thank Airports Company South Africa
for all their hard work in managing Cape Town International and making it the
top airport in Africa yet again. This award also belongs to the people who work
at the airport, who welcome our visitors with smiles on their faces, and who
ensure the highest level of professionalism in the service they provide.” “Cape Town International
Airport has won the award for Best Airport in Africa four years in a row now,
proving the consistently high standard of service and excellence offered to our
visitors. We are especially delighted because these awards are voted for by
travellers, and this award is a stamp of their approval. Going forward, we will
continue our partnership in the Air Access project, which has helped to open up
new routes into Cape Town, allowing more visitors from more parts of the world,
to experience our province and our service,” commented the Western Cape
Minister of Economic Opportunities, MEC Beverly Schafer. “The City of Cape Town
is delighted at the announcement of Cape Town International receiving this
prestigious award. Accolades of this nature assist in putting Cape Town and the
Western Cape on the tourists must do list. This recognition reinforces that we
are the go to city on the African continent, which means increased benefits for
the city and its residents. We hope to welcome even more visitors to Cape Town
International this year,” concurred City of Cape Town Mayoral Committee Member
for Economic Opportunities and Asset Management, Alderman James Vos. “This is an outstanding
achievement as Skytrax World Airport Awards are coveted, quality accolades
within the aviation industry, and a global benchmark of airport excellence.
This certainly strengthens the case for more airlines to fly non-stop to Cape
Town,” added Tim Harris, Wesgro CEO. “These achievements
are not ours alone –we are also privileged to work with partners that are
driven to grow Cape Town and the region at large. As such, I would like to
thank you for your ongoing commitment and support. Together we will all
continue to achieve more” concluded Deon Cloete, General Manager of Cape
Town International Airport. Cape Town Air Access
is a partnership between the Western Cape Government, the City of Cape Town,
Airports Company South Africa, Cape Town Tourism, South African Tourism, Wesgro
and private sector partners.