Although tourism is the major attraction of the Western Cape, the annual calendar is filled with some most iconic events. The Western Cape’s peak events period continues during the months of March and April, with a range of events taking place across the province. Cape Town and the Western Cape becomes the meeting spot for cultural enthusiast with events such as the Cape Town Carnival and the International Jazz Festival. Chicago The Musical, the award-winning Broadway and West End musical with multi-talented all-South African touring cast returns to the stage in Cape Town in March. Ed Sheeran will undertake his first-ever tour in South Africa, performing in the Cape Town Stadium in March. Ed continues his rise as one of the world’s most successful and talented musical talents – selling-out stadiums across the globe. One of the world’s biggest classical stars Andrea Bocelli will have his first ever concert in the Winelands in April. Andrea has recorded 15 solo studio albums of both pop and classical music, three greatest hits albums and nine complete opera. For his latest release ‘Si’, Andrea Bocelli has teamed up with some of the hottest musical stars on the planet – reuniting with his friend Ed Sheeran.  Andrea will be performing with the Cape Town Philharmonic Orchestra and Choir. Matteo Bocelli will also be joining his father to perform the duet ‘Fall On Me’. For the sports enthusiast, March is Cycling Month in the Western Cape. 35 000 cyclists will line up for the Cape Town Cycle tour, the biggest road cycling event on the South African calendar and the world’s largest timed cycle race. Cyclists will set off on the iconic route that includes highlights and challenges like Wynberg Hill, Smitswinkel, Misty Cliffs, Chapman’s Peak and Suikerbossie. Passing by two oceans, fynbos-sloped mountains and a modern cityscape, the 109km course is arguably the most beautiful of any mass-participation race route in the world. The Absa Cape Epic is the world’s premier mountain bike stage race that will take place in March from the iconic slopes of Table Mountain’s National Park – to the craggy shoreline of the Southern Coast. And on; traversing the famous Winelands and beyond into the high mountains of the Western Cape. The economic spin-offs from events in the Western Cape generate a ripple effect of job creation during and after events, and increase the spend at our world-famous attractions. It also enriches knowledge in hosting and creates opportunities for some of the people working on the events to initiate, and grow their own businesses. More events for March/April 2019 pg 15 Read more articles