Nuy Winery opened their showcase venue and restaurant, Nuy on the hill, located on a slight elevation alongside the R60 between Worcester and Robertson, right next to the Nuy Valley turnoff in December 2015. Situated in the picturesque Nuy River Valley, Nuy Winery has built their legacy on masterfully crafted wines inspired by their exceptional terroir and fine winemaking skills.  It is also this inheritance of fine wine excellence on which their new wine selection is based. Their selection of wines include the Inspiration, Mastery and Legacy ranges.  The Inspiration range offers a wide choice of quality Chenin Blanc, Sauvignon Blanc, Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, and two popular bubblies – an off-dry Sauvignon Blanc and sweeter Muscadel. The Mastery range will treat your palate to the more complex pick of Chardonnay, Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon and Pinotage, and the recently added Nuy Mastery Craft Gin, while Nuy Winery’s flagship range, Legacy, will consist of a white and red blend, Nuy’s maiden MCC, their celebrated Muscadel, Limited edition Nuy Legacy Craft Gin, and a potstill Brandy. These wine ranges also feature a newly designed label combining the coats of arms of neighbouring Worcester and Robertson with a depiction of the new venue in the background. With the cellar being located slightly off the beaten track, Nuy Winery saw the need for a specialist venue closer to the popular R60 route and thus, Nuy on the hill was conceptualised. Their idea was not only to make their product more accessible to the general public and specifically the R60 passerby, but also to match the fine wine experience with a perfect balance of delicious food set in a relaxed atmosphere. Building began on 8 June 2015.  Wood and stone elements were used in keeping with the natural surroundings complemented by a breathtaking view across the Nuy Valley vineyards.  The venue features a newly designed wine tasting room, a top restaurant run by Danette Thompson and Wilna van der Westhuizen (chef) as well as a deli.  A spacious patio surrounded by lush green lawn provides ample indoor and outdoor seating for patrons to treat themselves to a wide choice of restaurant dishes ranging from tapas, woodfired pizzas, hamburgers and steaks, to a selection of banting dishes.   The deli is stocked with a variety of preserved products sourced from local and afar, homebrewed coffees, freshly baked breads and speciality pastries. Patrons are invited to enjoy their purchases either as takeaway, or in a picnic setup, while keeping an eye on the kids conquering the new jungle gym.  A new mountain bike route is also on offer and cyclists are welcome to make use of the washing station located on the new premises. Opening hours for Nuy on the hill is Mondays to Fridays 09:00 – 17:00,  Saturdays and Sundays 09:00 – 16:00. Join the conversation: Facebook Nuy Winery www.facebook.com/nuy.winery| Facebook Nuy on the hill www.facebook.com/www.nuywinery.co.za  | Twitter @NUYWINERY For more information on Nuy Wine Cellar, visit www.nuywinery.co.za or contact AC Goodger at 023 347 0272 or email marketing@nuywinery.co.za