The Nine’ Academy of film, stage and dance was established in 2016 and offers a four year, internationally recognised, Trinity College of London Diploma in either performing arts, film and stage, or musical theatre.  Matric level qualifications and auditions are required for entry.  The diploma courses comprise training in all aspects of the professional industry, including film and stage performance, film and stage production and teaching qualifications. Students attend the academy full time to
study singing, dancing, writing, directing, producing, industry business, and
teaching.  Also included are the support
skills such as management, coordination, camera, lighting and sound, make-up,
props and choreography, historical development of the performing arts, dancing
and the visual arts, the styles, methods and resources which aids students to
become fully rounded artists successful in the careers they choose. To achieve success, academy training
standards must be maintained at the highest level, and to this end, assessments
and exams are regularly conducted by external national and international
examiners. The goal of the curriculum is to ensure
students graduate, and are able to develop and sustain their careers and
further promote the arts.  Unlike large
colleges, the academy environment allows every individual to receive the
personal attention and guidance needed. The Academy regularly enlists external
industry professionals to conduct workshops or outings with the students,
sharing their insight and skills. Nine’ Academy of Film, Stage and Dance
is a boutique training institution for film and stage. Past students are being
recognized and respected in the industry as professionals of calibre and
achieving sustainable careers. – The academy
guarantees one-on-one interaction with all their students. Focus is completely
on the individual, developing natural talent and ensuring the relevant skills
and professional standards are acquired. 
Most importantly, mentors guide the students in the direction that is
right for them – be it performance, technical skills and/or teaching. In the
Academy, one size does not fit all. – The diplomas
are internationally recognized, which means our graduate students can apply for
work nationally and internationally. – Students learn
not only how to work in the industry, but are also given the tools to be
creative and the confidence to become industry leaders. – To date the
academy has achieved a 100% pass rate, of which the majority are distinctions. MAINTAINING STANDARDS OF EXCELLENCE – Experience lies at the core of the
Academy’s success.  Many years of work
both in film and stage, have developed a deep understanding of what is required
and how it can be achieved. This knowledge is the foundation. – The governing bodies’ requirements are
maintained by means of examinations and regular assessments that monitor each
student’s development and identify areas that require attention. – Students are exposed to a multitude of
options in the foundation phase.  This
allows them to define their focus so that tutors and management can guide them
towards the appropriate study paths. – The space at the academy is a creative
area, allowing students the freedom to explore their options as performers,
directors, teachers and technicians. – The syllabus is designed to improve
life skills, instil positive behaviour and develop confidence as young leaders
in South Africa. – The academy prides itself on the high
standard of productions and work outcomes. WHAT CAREER OPTIONS ARE THERE IN THE PERFORMING ARTS? There are a multitude of options.  The performing arts are not limited to stage, but include film, television and radio. Furthermore these careers are not confined to performance but include technical support. Principal Janine Holthuysen quotes, “Let
me ask this question. Can you imagine a world without films, television, radio,
theatre and music? What kind of world would that be? The performing arts are
the reflection of our society and skilled artists are needed to present it. It
is informative, recreational, healing, a therapeutic tool, instrument for
conflict resolution, exposes lies and tells truths, allows escapism, tells
peoples stories, gives insights into other cultures, communities, people’s lives
and situations, and in so doing help create an understanding of each other’s
history, beliefs and cultures in order to move positively into the future. We
want to be a part of this.” The Academy has limited space for the
2019 intake; and is especially excited about their Gap year course that is
being offered. GAP YEAR COURSE This course gives potential artists an
insight into the world of performing arts (singing, dancing and acting) and
what the industry has to offer.  Students
are introduced to the different skills required to perform on stage and in film
and to work on production projects. If school leavers/students are uncertain as
to their future fields of study, this is the perfect course to learn more about
the industry and decide whether it is for them. Students have the option to
transfer to do the entry level for the diploma course midyear. Situated on a farm at the foot of the
scenic winelands, it provides a healthy natural environment and space for the
students to relax between classes in a safe environment. They are located in
Somerset West, which makes the academy within easy reach of students in the
Helderberg, Overberg and Stellenbosch areas. South Africa has a thriving film
industry which services both national and international film productions and
commercials, using local skills. We are a part of the initiative to develop and
maintain this amazing industry and help grow the country’s economy and job
development. Contact Nine’ Academy of film, stage and
dance to arrange an interview for our 2019 courses. For more information contact 021 012 5218 or visit www.nineacademy.net