This is an important week for all things Brexit, both
in the United Kingdom (UK) and in South Africa. In the UK this week: In the UK, Prime Minister Theresa May will put three
separate Brexit-related votes to the British Parliament this week. On 12 March,
today, British MPs will take part in a second “meaningful vote”, voting on a revised
withdrawal deal with the EU. If it passes, and is approved by the European
Parliament, then the UK will leave the European Union (EU) with a deal in
place. The withdrawal deal has only been revised from the deal voted on earlier
this year insofar as it relates to the border between the Republic of Ireland
and Northern Ireland (the Irish backstop). In the event that the withdrawal deal is rejected
again, MPs will then vote on 13 March on whether the UK should leave the EU
without a deal. This option seems likely to be rejected by Parliament. In the event that the first two options are rejected,
then on 14 March MPs will have the opportunity to vote on whether the
government ought to seek a delay of the 29 March Brexit deadline. This week
will therefore provide an outcome, in one way or another, to the current
impasse and possibly an extended deadline. Meanwhile in South Africa: Meanwhile in South Africa, Parliament may also be
called upon this week to ratify a new trade agreement between the UK and the
Southern African Customs Union plus Mozambique (SACU+M). The governments of the
SACU+M countries have been negotiating an agreement with the UK to ensure trade
continuity upon the UK’s exit from the EU. This agreement will largely be a
replication of our Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) with the EU. As part of the EU customs union, the UK has been a
party to all EU trade agreements, and therefore the trade of goods between
South Africa and the UK has until now taken place under the conditions set in
the EU–SACU+M Economic Partnership Agreement (EU EPA). The EU EPA, which came
into force in 2016, provides duty free and preferential access for a large
amount of Southern African goods into the EU market, and thus also into the UK
market. Once the UK leaves the EU, it will no longer be a party to the trade
agreements that the EU has with other countries. Therefore, once the UK leaves
the EU, South African goods will no longer have duty free or preferential
access into the UK market unless a new and separate agreement is entered into
between the two countries. Various Scenarios: Depending on what happens this week in the British Parliament,
there are various scenarios that could occur. How this plays out will have an
impact on South African goods being exported to the UK. The first scenario is that the UK leaves with a
withdrawal deal in place with the EU. This will happen if Parliament votes in favour of the
Prime Minister’s deal. It is likely in this case that the deadline of 29 March
could be extended for a short while to ensure technicalities are in place. If
the UK does leave with a withdrawal deal, there will be an orderly transition
period, likely 2 years, and during this time, the UK will remain a part of the
EU customs union. During this transition period, the UK will negotiate its
future trade relationship with the EU. Should this be the case, South Africa
(and all other third party countries) will continue to trade with the UK as if
it were part of the EU for another two years. In this case the SACU+M – UK
Agreement will not come into force immediately after 29 March, but rather will
kick in after the transition period, once, and if, the UK leaves the EU customs
union. The second scenario is a no-deal Brexit. If this happens, then as of 29 March the UK will no
longer be a member of the EU customs union and there will be no transitional
withdrawal agreement in place. In this case, trade between the EU and UK will
happen in accordance with World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules. This will
result in major and widespread disruptions in the short-term. Customs checks
will have to be introduced for goods crossing the border, and regulatory
standards will for instance no longer be automatically accepted between the EU
and UK. In the case of a no-deal Brexit on 29 March, the UK
would also have to trade on WTO principles with all the countries with which it
has not concluded a bilateral preferential trade continuity agreement by that
day. WTO principles include the Most-Favoured-Nation (MFN) rule, which says
that a country has to extend the same tariff rate to all WTO members alike.
There are, however, certain exceptions to the MFN rule, such as having entered
into a trade agreement with a country, or unilaterally providing preferential
market access to developing countries (e.g. GSP and AGOA). Under a no-deal Brexit, there are two scenarios for
South Africa: Roll-over Agreement with the UK or no Roll-over Agreement. Should the SACU+M –UK Agreement be in place in time
for the 29 March deadline (i.e. signed and ratified), then South African goods
are assured of having preferential access to the UK market the day after Brexit
if there is a no-deal Brexit. If the agreement is not in place in time, then
South African goods will also face MFN tariffs upon entry into the UK market in
the case of a no-deal Brexit. The UK is yet to publish its post-Brexit MFN
tariff rates. The third scenario is a delay of the deadline and a
return to the drawing board. This will happen in the event that the Prime
Minister’s deal is rejected, that a no-deal Brexit is rejected, and the British
Parliament votes for an extension of the 29 March deadline. This will mean
extending the uncertainty of what Brexit will look like, and potentially even
whether it will happen. How does a no-deal Brexit play out in the short-term for South African
exports to the UK? There is one scenario, in the short term, where EU
goods to the UK could face higher tariffs than South African goods. This would
be in the case of no-deal Brexit but a roll-over agreement between South Africa
and the UK. There would however still be major disruptions to many
South African exports in this case. A large amount of South African goods
destined for the UK are shipped through Rotterdam or other European ports, and
these products will get caught up in border disruptions en route to the UK.
Similarly, many South African exports destined for mainland Europe are
transported through the UK. What would a no-deal Brexit mean for Western Cape
exports to the UK relative to imports of the same products from other
countries? The UK was the Western Cape’s second largest export
market in 2017 after Namibia (and South Africa’s 8th largest export
market). The UK was also the number one source of foreign direct investment
into the Western Cape and the number one source of foreign tourists in 2017.
The Western Cape’s economy is therefore closely tied to that of the UK. The Western Cape’s top exports to the UK in 2017 were: A look at the Western Cape’s top ten exports to the UK
relative to the same products from other exporting countries: South Africa was
the main source of imported fresh grapes in the UK in 2017; 26 percent of fresh
grape imports to the UK were from South Africa. The next biggest
source of imported grapes were Spain (17 percent) and Chile (10 percent). In the case of a
no-deal Brexit, South African grapes will continue to benefit from seasonal
preferential market access to the UK on a similar basis as under the EU EPA if
the SACU+M roll-over agreement is concluded in time. If not, then South African
grapes will be subject to MFN duties in the short term in the case of a no-deal
Brexit. The UK already
has a roll-over agreement in place with Chile, and therefore Chilean grapes
will continue to have market preference after Brexit. In the case of a
no-deal Brexit, in the short-term, Spanish grapes will face MFN tariffs into
the UK. If there is a withdrawal deal then Spanish grapes will continue to
enter the UK market duty free in the short-term. Grapes imported
into the EU on an MFN basis currently face a 14.4% ad valorem tariff 
(proportion of total value) and an entry price condition. Wine imports in
the UK in 2017 came from France (31 percent), followed by Italy, Spain, New
Zealand, Chile, Germany, Australia, Argentina and South Africa (3 percent). In the short
term, Italian, Spanish and German wine will face MFN tariffs in a no-deal
Brexit scenario, but will continue to enjoy duty free access if there is a
withdrawal deal. Australia and
New Zealand do not have preferential access to the EU market and the UK will
therefore not have any agreement in place directly post Brexit. Wine from
Australia and New Zealand will thus continue to face MFN tariffs into the UK
market. Argentinian wine
will be subject to MFN tariffs. Chilean wine
will have the same preferential access it enjoys under Chile’s trade agreement
with the EU based on the roll-over agreement already concluded between the UK
and Chile. South African
wine will continue to benefit from preferential market access to the UK on a
similar basis as under the EU EPA if the SACU+M roll-over agreement is
concluded in time; if not, then South African wine will be subject to MFN
duties in the case of a no-deal Brexit, in the short term. The SACU+M –UK
Agreement will include new tariff rate quotas for wine. Currently EU
(and thus UK) MFN tariffs on wine in containers of 2l or less can be up to 0.32
Euros/litre. France was the
main source of imported apples in the UK in 2017, accounting for 31 percent.
South Africa was second at 18 percent, followed by New Zealand and Chile. In the case of a
no-deal Brexit, in the short-term, French apples will face MFN tariffs into the
UK. If there is a withdrawal deal then French apples will continue to enter the
UK market duty free in the short-term. South African
apples will continue to benefit from preferential market access to the UK on a
similar basis as under the EU EPA if the SACU+M roll-over agreement is concluded
in time, if not, then South African apples will be subject to MFN duties in the
case of a no-deal Brexit, in the short term. Apples from New
Zealand will continue to face MFN tariffs as they currently do. Chilean apples
will have the same preferential access enjoyed under Chile’s trade agreement
with the EU based on the roll-over agreement already concluded between the UK
and Chile. Apples imported
into the EU on an MFN basis currently face a 7.2% minimum ad valorem or 0.36
Euro /100kg and entry price conditions. Spain was the
biggest source of imported mandarins in the UK in 2017, accounting for 41
percent, followed by South Africa at 23 percent, and then Morocco. As above, in the
short term, Spanish mandarins will either continue to enter the UK market duty
free in the case of a withdrawal deal, or face MFN tariffs if there is no-deal. South African
mandarins will continue to benefit from preferential market access to the UK on
a similar basis as under the EU EPA if the SACU+M roll-over agreement is
concluded in time; if not, then South African mandarins will be subject to MFN
duties in the case of a no-deal Brexit, in the short term. Moroccan
mandarins will face MFN tariffs entering the UK market in the case of a no-deal
Brexit, as the UK has not concluded a trade continuity agreement with Morocco
yet. Mandarin imports
to the EU on an MFN basis are subject to entry price conditions. The largest
source of imported bulk wine in the UK in 2017 was Australia, followed by the
USA, New Zealand, and then South Africa (4th at 9 percent). Neither
Australia, the USA nor New Zealand have a trade agreement in force with the EU,
and therefore, the UK is unlikely to have any preferential agreements with them
in place immediately after Brexit. These wine imports will therefore all
continue to be subject to MFN tariffs in the short term. South African
wine will continue to benefit from preferential market access to the UK on a
similar basis as under the EU EPA if the SACU+M roll-over agreement is concluded
in time; if not, then South African wine will be subject to MFN duties in the
case of a no-deal Brexit, in the short term. The SACU+M –UK Agreement will
include new tariff rate quotas for wine. Currently EU MFN
tariffs on wine in containers of more than 2l can be up to 0.32 Euros/litre. The largest
source of imported oranges in the UK in 2017 was Spain (34 percent), then South
Africa at 25 percent, followed by Egypt. In the case of a
no-deal Brexit, in the short-term, Spanish oranges will face MFN tariffs into
the UK. If there is a withdrawal deal then Spanish oranges will continue to
enter the UK market duty free in the short-term. South African
oranges will continue to benefit from preferential market access to the UK on a
similar basis as under the EU EPA if the SACU+M roll-over agreement is
concluded in time (gradual reduction of seasonal tariffs), if not, then South
African oranges will be subject to MFN duties in the case of a no-deal Brexit,
in the short term. Egyptian oranges
will face MFN tariffs entering the UK market in the case of a no-deal Brexit,
as the UK has not concluded a trade continuity agreement with Egypt yet. Currently MFN
tariffs on oranges are seasonal and range between 12 and 16 percent ad valorem.
Entry price conditions are applied. The largest
source of imported cranberries/ bilberries  in the UK in 2017 was Spain,
with 24 percent of imports, followed by Chile, Peru, and South Africa (11
percent). In the case of a
no-deal Brexit, in the short-term, Spanish cranberries/ bilberries will face
MFN tariffs into the UK. If there is a withdrawal deal then Spanish
cranberries/bilberries will continue to enter the UK market duty free in the
short-term. Chile will have
preferential access into the UK market based on the continuity agreement
already concluded with the UK. Peruvian
cranberries / bilberries will face MFN tariffs as Peru has not yet concluded a
continuity agreement with the UK. South African
cranberries/bilberries will continue to benefit from preferential market access
to the UK on a similar basis as under the EU EPA if the SACU+M roll-over
agreement is concluded in time, if not, then South African cranberries/
bilberries will be subject to MFN duties in the case of a no-deal Brexit, in
the short term. Currently EU MFN
tariffs are 4 percent ad valorem. South Africa was
the biggest source of imported plums and sloes in the UK (34 percent) in 2017,
followed by Spain and Italy. South African
plums will continue to benefit from preferential market access to the UK on a
similar basis as under the EU EPA if the SACU+M roll-over agreement is
concluded in time; if not, then South African plums will be subject to MFN
duties in the case of a no-deal Brexit, in the short term. In the case of a
no-deal Brexit, in the short-term, Spanish and Italian plums/ sloes will face
MFN tariffs into the UK. If there is a withdrawal deal then Spanish and Italian
plums/ sloes will continue to enter the UK market duty free in the short-term. Currently EU MFN
tariffs on plums and sloes are 12 percent, with entry price conditions. Spain was the
biggest source of imported fresh peaches to the UK in 2017 at 63 percent,
followed by South Africa at 17 percent, and then Germany. South African
peaches will continue to benefit from preferential market access to the UK on a
similar basis as under the EU EPA if the SACU+M roll-over agreement is
concluded in time; if not, then South African peaches will be subject to MFN
duties in the case of a no-deal Brexit, in the short term. In the case of a
no-deal Brexit, in the short-term, Spanish and German peaches will face MFN
tariffs into the UK. If there is a withdrawal deal then Spanish and German
peaches will continue to enter the UK market duty free in the short-term. Currently fresh
peach imports on an MFN basis to the EU are subject to entry price conditions. South Africa is
the 17th largest source of imports, providing 1 percent of imported
goods. South African
beauty products/ sunscreen will continue to benefit from preferential market
access to the UK on a similar basis as under the EU EPA if the SACU+M roll-over
agreement is concluded in time; if not, then South African beauty products/
sunscreen will be subject to MFN duties in the case of a no-deal Brexit, in the
short term. Currently these
products are however duty free on an MFN basis into the EU. Sources: Quantec, 2019; Trademap, 2019; UK Government EU Exit
and Trade Tariff Guidance Website; WTO Tariff Analysis Online Facility; South
African Development Community – European Union; Economic Partnership Agreement
Text. Wesgro is Cape Town and the Western Cape’s tourism,
trade, and investment promotion agency. The Wesgro Trade Promotion Unit is
focused on increasing the rand value of exports into global markets and the
number of jobs resulting from export orders. To this extent, Wesgro keeps a
keen eye on developments in the global trade landscape and works closely with
national and provincial government, business and export councils, as well as
academic institutions in order to provide high quality service and leverage
opportunities across global markets for Western Cape exporters. Wesgro has taken every effort to ensure that the information in this publication is accurate. We provide said information without representation or warranty whatsoever, whether expressed or implied. It is the responsibility of users of this publication to satisfy themselves of the accuracy of information contained herein. Wesgro cannot be held responsible for the contents of the publication in any way. Read more articles