Organisers of Africa’s only IAAF Gold
Label-status multi-award-winning city marathon aim to increase international
participation to at least 15% this year. Over eighty countries participated in
last year’s Sanlam Cape Town Marathon, representing 10% of the marathon
entrants. Southern African Development Community (SADC) states, Northern and
Western Europe, Asia and North American countries were among them. “In 2014, when we relaunched the revamped
marathon, our timing couldn’t have been better,” says race director Janet
Welham. “It coincided with The New York
Times announcing Cape Town as the number-one spot on its ‘52 Places to Go’
list. That announcement triggered massive interest from around the world in
Cape Town’s exotic appeal.” An avalanche of international awards for
the City of Cape Town followed in the next few years, most notably the top spot
in the 2018 “World’s Leading Festival and Events Destination” at the World
Travel Awards. “With South Africa and Africa ripe for a world-class,
internationally accredited city marathon, and overseas runners wanting the
guarantee of internationally accredited organisational excellence, we were able
to meet their needs and more,” Welham says. By last year, the marathon had itself won
a welter of awards, from the Sports Industry Awards’ 2018 “Mass Participation
Event of the Year” and “Event of the Year” by Runners World South Africa, to a
bronze in the Climate Change category at the Eco-Logic Awards. And, for the
third year running, the race was accredited with IAAF Gold Label status,
cementing its position as Africa’s “must run” city marathon. Taking place this year on Sunday 15
September, the classic 42.2km city marathon is the highlight of a weekend-long
running festival that begins the day before with two Peace Trail Runs (22km and
12km) and a 5km Peace Run. Shortly before Sunday’s marathon, a 10km Peace Run
takes place. Entries are now open for the marathon. “The route for the marathon, at sea level,
is a beautiful and fast course which, as we saw in 2018, increases runners’
chances of breaking records. Add this to an eclectic mix of heritage buildings,
sea views and mountain vistas, the southern suburb’s tree-lined avenues,
coupled with a great vibe, and you have a marathon that’s fast becoming known
internationally for its interest and beauty,” comments race ambassador and
Olympian Elana Van Zyl-Meyer. Marathon organisers have made a point of
ensuring that the core offering of the race is environmentally sustainable and
globally benchmarked. Last year, the marathon was certified a climate-neutral
event, achieving zero waste to landfill. In 2017 the Sanlam Cape Town Marathon
won the AIMS Green Award at a glittering ceremony held in Athens, Greece by the
Association of International Marathons and Distance Race (AIMS). Entrants were
judged on the impact of their races on promoting environmentally friendly
practices, how volunteers contribute to the race’s success, and the ability of
the event to educate younger generations about the benefits of sport and
environmental protection. “The AIMS endorsement increased our
international standing and positioned our event as one with great meaning and
social context: we aren’t just another beautiful tree-lined-city marathon, but
an event that’s addressing the critical global issue of climate change, which
piques the interest of runners from Western countries,” says Welham. The marathon addresses its host city’s
social and economic challenges too. Its Run4Change legacy programme has raised
in excess of R2,5 million for over 50 charities. It adopted an extensive
development programme which, among other things, has trained up 150
“development athletes” (up-and-coming stars) and enabled 800 disadvantaged kids
to enter the smaller weekend events free of charge and with focused training
workshops beforehand. And it co-hosted and supported the SACANRUN shoe drive
which to date has distributed over 460 pairs of shoes to disadvantaged athletes
in South Africa. “As Africa’s biggest
non-banking Pan-African company, Sanlam believes strongly in the potential and
people of Africa. Our involvement in the Cape Town Marathon, Africa’s only IAAF
certified gold race, is an extension of that belief in terms of hosting a
platform for people to express their potential and resilience to achieve
greatness in their personal endeavours and on the sports field,” says Mariska
Oosthuizen, head of brand for Sanlam. “Further, every year the marathon gives
us a great opportunity to interact with the people living in or visiting the city
at the time of the event. The combined support of our financial support for the
event, and the people participating in it, make an invaluable contribution the
economic development of the City of Cape Town, through tourism and other
commercial activities.” With a possibility of attracting an
increasing number of moneyed foreign runners to the city for the weekend, the
marathon, like several other international sporting events, means increased
spend in local businesses and injects millions into the local economy. “The City of Cape Town has proven its
ability in hosting large events. We are able to attract an increasing amount of
local and international tourists to sporting events hosted in the city, further
confirming our status as the world’s leading events and tourism destination.
The Cape Town Marathon is quickly becoming a staple for athletes and running
enthusiasts and we are excited at the potential growth it could bring. As a
caring city we are pleased to see the event gives back to those less fortunate
by raising funds through various charities,” said Executive Mayor Dan Plato. In a bid to grow its international reach,
this year the marathon has entered into a record number of partnerships with
overseas sports-specialised travel agencies, including Penthouse Travel,
Marathon Tours and Travel, Africa Marathons, Sportifs A Bord, Sports Tours
International, Run Fun Travel, Marathon Costa Mar Travel, and I Run The Globe.
“We’re giving runners from abroad an opportunity to run with great meaning, at
international standards, in a city that’s radiating its light far and wide,”
says Welham. Africa is my
home, this is my race. It’s Cape Town, must run it! TO ENTER go to www.capetownmarathon.com