Yesterday evening the Cape Town Air Access (CTAA) project, a division  of Wesgro, provided a review of 2018, whilst looking at  opportunities for the upcoming year. Forming
the focal point for proactive international  air route development in Cape
Town and the Western Cape, the initiative has  launched 13 new routes and
facilitated 19 route expansions since their inception in 2015. This
has doubled seat capacity at Cape Town  International Airport, adding 1.5
million two-way seats to the Cape Town  network, contributing and
estimated R6 billion in direct tourism spend since July 2015. A
key theme for the evening was turning adversity into  opportunity, as the
Province emerged from a challenging year with the drought creating uncertainty
for visitors. Addressing
guests was Western Cape Premier, Helen  Zille, who discussed how Cape Town
and the Western Cape has become renowned for  turning disasters into
opportunities. “When you hit a disaster, it is the  partnerships that get
you out,” commented Zille, who went on to congratulate  the collaborative
project as being a prime example of an initiative that has done this particularly
well – with the project continuing to grow air connectivity despite the
challenges facing the province and country at large in 2018. “We’re
in competition with everyone for tourists, business and investment. We want
Cape Town to succeed because we want to see South Africa succeed. If South
Africa succeeds, Africa succeeds,” added Zille. Continuing
the theme of collaboration, Wesgro CEO, Tim Harris, highlighted how
collaborating to grow air connectivity is happening around South Africa, with
the CTAA team actively engaging with Johannesburg’s Oliver Tambo International
Airport and Nelson Mandela Bay to see  how a similar model can be
implemented to boost air connectivity to these provinces. “The
real success of the project is reflected in the  international terminal
passenger growth, with 16% growth recorded in 2016, 20%  growth in 2017,
and 9% growth for 2018 in two-way passengers. International air  cargo has
also seen phenomenal, recording 52% growth during 2017 due to the  added
belly-freight capacity. In addition to this, business class passenger 
numbers have experienced exceptional growth over the last few years with 15%
growth  in 2017, and 10% in 2018,” added Harris. Highlights
for the past year included: In 
the upcoming financial year, CTAA will look to focus on air cargo
development  in the Western Cape, which has recorded over 50% increase in
2017 since the  projects inception, and facilitate cooperation initiatives
with other airports  and partners in South Africa. In terms of route
development, facilitating new,  and expanding on existing routes in Africa
will remain a key theme, with the  initiative actively in the process of
looking to develop a direct flight  between North America and Cape Town
International Airport. “Air
Access has shown excellent results in  creating new routes and growing the
numbers of people coming into the Western  Cape. By creating direct routes
and making it easier to access the province,  Air Access also plays an
important role in developing trade relations and  growing tourism. Going
forward, we will continue to focus on developing new  routes, especially
across Africa, and exploring the potential for growing cargo  further
which will help to further grow our economy and create new jobs,”
commented Minister of Economic Opportunities, Beverly Schäfer. Taking 
a more in-depth look at how the aviation economy can boost connectivity and 
investment, Mayoral Committee Member for Economic Opportunities and  Asset
Management, Alderman James Vos said: “Weaving  the urban fabric of the
surrounding area and influencing economic and social  growth, airports are
quickly becoming anchors for a new type of city. No longer  are they just
locations where aircrafts land and depart, they are destinations  where
businesses grow, people live and development flourishes. Aerotropolis 
cities are destined to be the economic engine of the 21st century.  As a
globally forward looking city, we will look at ways to implement and 
support this concept.” “We
have seen excellent results from the air access  programme.  Whilst
air connectivity is critical to our region; it is key  to boosting tourism
and investment.  The airport is gearing up for its  expansion to meet
the current demand.  A special thank you to all airlines  for
choosing Cape Town.  Together we look forward to enabling more route 
into our region,” concluded Deon Cloete, General Manager of Cape Town
International  Airport. Cape Town Air Access is a partnership between the
City of Cape Town, Western Cape Government, Wesgro, Cape Town Tourism, South
African Tourism, Airports Company South Africa and private sector partners.