Tucked away on the Eastern Head of Knysna and surrounded by what can only be described as a natural, lush paradise of indigenous forests, mountains and flawless beaches, lies Pezula Hotel; one of the most beautiful and most luxurious hotels in the gorgeous Garden Route. World-renowned for its beautiful location and Championship golf course with views to die for, Pezula Hotel is truly the epitome of luxury and tranquility. A stand-out on the immensely popular Garden Route of South Africa, Pezula Hotel has a certain allure that is hard to come by. Pezula’s Suites and Villas are all designed with serene luxury in mind, and are designed to house guests of any kind. Couples looking for a perfect romantic retreat, families in search of a fun filled yet relaxing holiday, or even the lone traveller, exploring the beautiful Garden Route. The Championship golf course has been host to several high-profile golfers. PGA professionals and amateurs alike can all agree that Pezula’s golf course is one of (if not the) most beautiful and rewarding golf courses in the country. In addition to luxurious Suites, Villas and a seriously beautiful golf course, Pezula is also home to an award-winning spa. The spa, with its serene interiors and plush treatment rooms, is a welcome escape for any guest wanting to take full advantage of the relaxing, tranquil atmosphere that Pezula exudes. Zachary’s Bistro, Pezula’s in-house restaurant, is a one-stop-shop for exquisite cuisine. Zachary’s focuses on creating delectable dishes that are made with fresh, seasonal and local ingredients. Think hearty, crisp salads with only the freshest local ingredients, melt-in-your-mouth proteins and a selection of fresh seafood (including Knysna oysters!), all washed down with the impressive selection of local wines and international Champagne. Speaking of Champagne – Noah’s Champagne Lounge at Pezula is the perfect place to either start or wind down a night out. The beautifully decorated lounge offers everything from local, top tier wines, to French Champagne, to well-aged whiskeys and aperitifs. Coco Chanel famously said that “luxury must be comfortable, otherwise it is not luxury,”  and this saying does not ring more true than at Pezula Hotel. Read more articles