The meaning of the word ‘Mymering’ is to reminisce on only what is fabulous! The Mymering team can’t wait to share everything they love about their home with you. It’s flawless landscapes, unique attractions, 6 dogs, and the fantastic opportunity to simply relax and recharge on fresh air, pure water, awe-inspiring views, and wholesome food. Mymering is a working farm exporting table grapes and producing boutique Hillock Wines. Varietals include, Chenin blanc, Sauvignon blanc, lightly wooded Chardonnay, Shiraz, Merlot and Andy’s Mile High blend of Pinotage, Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet Franc, Merlot and Shiraz.  A special MCC made from Chardonnay Grapes for Penny called Penelope Anne and his favorite dog, a Yorkie, Princess Fergie also has an MCC dedicated to her made from Shiraz grapes named Fergalicous. The Hillock restaurant uses only the best local produce to deliver a fresh country cuisine. Favorite dishes include snoek pate with 5 seed bread, Marinated trout served with crusty bread, baked cheese soufflé, classic avo/prawn with homemade mayo to start. Slow roasted Karoo Lamb, Beef fillet stack with basil cream, Stuffed chicken breast fillet with creamy samp, Rich Oxtail rague served with pasta rice as a main. Chocolate fondant, Rooibos cheesecake, Mixed berry Pannacotta, Crème Carmel to end.  Vegetarians welcome! Choose to sit at our large table with all the other guests or dine privately on your own. You can expect fresh fruit salad picked from the area, muesli and yoghurt, homemade muffins served with our jams, health smoothies, eggs benedict, full farmhouse, omelets, brown and white toast, tea, coffee and fresh juice for breakfast. Escape into nature. Indulge in good food and wine. Stargaze. Work out in an outdoor gym. Jump into a heated pool. Take a walk with Andy and his six dogs. Enjoy the unique fauna and flora of the Klein Karoo. For the more energetic hike Stanley’s liggie, mountain bike up the seweweeks-poort, one of the most spectacular of all the mountain ravines in the country.  For those not so energetic, do the drive…it’s amazing, it’s a must! Get married, have your milestone birthday celebration, family reunion…do it all here at Mymering. The Lodge accommodates 18 guests with 7 chalets, and a 2 bedroom period cottage. All uniquely decorated with luxury furnishings, percale linens, bespoke towels and artisan toiletries made on the farm with essential oils. Choose from self-catering or allow us to spoil you a little by cooking for you. YOUR HOSTS: ANDY AND PENNY HILLOCK Dwarsrivier Valley, Ladismith, South Africa Reservations: +27 28 551 1548 Reservations@mymering.com or visit http://www.mymering.com/