!Khwa ttu is hosting its third annual Heritage Festival during the long weekend, 21 – 24 September 2019. This award-winning Heritage Centre is located a short one hour drive from Cape Town’s CBD on the West Coast Way. The San at !Khwa ttu will use the 4-day long Festival to celebrate a fusion of South African cultures ending off on Heritage Day.
The !Khwa ttu Heritage Festival is a unique family-friendly event and is the perfect way to kick off the school holidays which coincides with the Cape West Coast flower season. Visitors to the Festival can look forward to an array of budget-beating activities for the entire family where two kids under the age of 18 can join the fun for free with any 1-Day entrance ticket bought at R70 per person (R50 pensioners) from 10 am to 4 pm. The festival includes: a Kids Zone with face-painting and arts and crafts activities, San inspired kids treasure hunt, story-telling and fun interactive sessions, Traditional Bushmen Dancers and Emile Jansen’s performances, Join in and learn traditional Bushmen / Break / Krump / Riel and Street Dance moves, Tractor rides to the replica San village with animal tracking and San language lessons, Tours of the world-class interactive Heritage Centre, Informative talks on the San culture and heritage, !Khwa ttu homemade herbal tea tastings, Pop-up food demonstrations – such as how to “vleg” koeksisters, and West Coast craft and traditional food stalls. In addition to the food stalls that will be set up during the Festival, visitors can dine at !Khwa ttu’s Restaurant offering their famous eland burger, spekboom soup and Darling cheese and charcuterie platters. “During the course of the weekend we will be offering complimentary entry to our world-class Heritage Centre, which will be celebrating its one year anniversary to all Festival ticket holders,” explains Michael Daiber – CEO of !Khwa ttu. “Visitors can anticipate presentations that depict the lives of the San. Bushmen guides tell the stories of their people – coupled with audio and film to really bring the stories to life and immerse visitors in the ways of the San. For active families, you can add to your !Khwa ttu Heritage Festival experience by entering the Family Fun Run and Fun Mountain Bike Ride.” For this weekend only !Khwa ttu will make available 50 camping spots near the Heritage Centre for those who want to spend the night in their own tent. Be close to the activities and enjoy breathtaking scenery at R100 per day. Amenities include toilets, showers and braai facilities. No power outlets are avialable on the campsite. For more information visit www.khwattu.org