The annual Hermanus Whale Festival from 27 – 29 September 2019 is a celebration to the return of the southern right whales to the coastal waters of Southern Africa. It is a tribute to the legacy left to the town by Wendy the Whale whose story is about man’s ability to live in harmony with nature as well as people’s ability to come together as communities valuing the environment. All events and activities during the whale festival are focused to create awareness on how to protect the whales and all our marine wildlife who share our coastal waters. The festival takes place in September which is the peak of whale activity in the region. Hermanus was recently voted by The Telegraph as one of the best destinations worldwide for watching marine mammals. Whether from land or boats, with spectacular annual visits from the southern right and humpback whales and enormous pods of dolphins year-round.
Every year, southern right whales migrate from their icy feeding grounds off Antarctica to warmer climates, reaching the South African Whale Coast in June and will stay till early December. These coastal waters will then teem with the giant mammals, mating, calving and rearing their young – and giving whale-watchers spectacular displays of raw power and elegant water acrobatics incredibly close to shore. Over a period of 3 days, this fishing village will once again bursts into life when thousands of visitors descend upon the town to join in the festivities of this popular event. Accommodation establishments open their doors, restaurants dish up mouth-watering meals and the residents of Hermanus open their hearts in a warm welcome to visitors.
Now in its 28th year the Hermanus Whale Festival, is the oldest and largest festival on the South African whale coast calendar and while the whales are predominantly the star performers at the festival, these gentle giants will be joined on land by quality entertainers and musicians, an array of food stalls, kiddies activities and events suitable for both the young and old. The heartbeat of the whale festival, the Eco-Marine Tent, has become the festival’s biggest attraction. Informative and entertaining, with a focused appeal to children, adults and anyone who cares about preserving our ocean wildlife. With its wide range of eco & marine-related environmental exhibitions, the aim of the Eco Marine Tent and the Hermanus Whale Festival is to inspire visitors through informative, colourful, interactive displays, films, music, arts and food and informative talks by marine biologists and experts.
From whales to dolphins, sharks to starfish, our oceans provide us with air to breathe, water to drink and food to eat. Visitors get to enjoy the unbelievable sightseeing opportunities while getting clued up on the plight of the endangered creatures in the Eco Marine Tent. The marine giants will most certainly remain the stars of the show, but on land visitors to this seaside town can expect to be equally dazzled by great entertainment and activities, gut-busting eats, quality crafts and fun for kiddies. This year’s programme will once again include land & boat-based whale watching, arts and crafts, a Street Parade, an orchid show and the Whales and Wheels Classic Car Show. Expect to linger for hours inside the Coke Live Music Marquee, and the Old Harbour Music Arena where various local artists will be performing over the three days of the festival.
The festivities will include Marine Mammal & Eco Talks, Festival of Whales Street Parade, shop-till-you-drop stalls, Kiddies Whale of a Beach Clean-Up in the Old Harbour and on the Cliff Path, kiddies’ movies and entertainment. The very popular Pirate & Mermaid Treasure Hunt is extended over two days and will once again have lots of giveaway prizes! Everyone who plays wins a prize! For more information visit www.hermanuswhalefestival.co.za