Global digital learning company, Construct, formerly known as Proversity announced an exciting new name and plans to double in size. Construct CEO, David Philipps, said at the announcement: “We are pleased to announce that as a result of our ongoing US $3 million expansion in Cape Town, an additional 150 instructional design, technology and creative jobs are expected to be created in the next three years. These jobs will support online programmes at universities in Boston, Oxford and Doha as well as corporates and governments across the globe.” “We have seen the growth of the edtech sector within the Silicon Cape and the first $100m+ edtech company native to the Mother City; we see ourselves as the next evolution in that edtech story.” “Our vision is to support a diverse workforce which contributes to Cape Town’s ranking not only as one of the greatest cities on the planet but also one of the most powerful edtech hubs globally.” Construct’s David Casey explained the impressive journey the company has taken since it was established in the UK in 2013: “With a rapidly growing customer base we wanted to find somewhere we could massively scale our delivery operations. We explored LATAM, Europe and Asia – but ultimately settled on Cape Town in 2015, with its wealth of passionate and talented young professionals in key comparable sectors. The office has been rapidly growing, resulting in moves from the House of Machines to the V&A Waterfront, to the Old Castle Brewery and to the Urban Hub in the Bo Kaap.” “Our new offices and new name, which we are proud to launch in Long-kloof Studios, demonstrates yet again that we are a fast-growing, digital learning company with a growing footprint in South Africa.“ “We expect further growth, as we leverage the impressive tech ecosystem in the province, and the major opportunities for growth in Africa. Watch this space,” said Casey.
The company also has offices in London, Salt Lake City, Oxford, Tel Aviv and Doha. In closing, the American COO for Construct, Katie Bradford said: “The Online Programme Management space is one of the fastest growing sectors in education and professional development in the USA, EMEA and the Middle-East.” “By marrying the requirements of the greatest institutions in the world with the distinctive cultural and design aesthetic that is Cape Town, I know we can continue to deliver truly phenomenal learning experiences, that have an impact from California to Canberra.”