WTM Africa is a vibrant, culturally diverse, must attend business-to-business travel and tourism event, with a range of destinations and industry sectors for African and International travel professionals. Join travel professionals from over 70 countries over three days in Cape Town, South Africa to connect with leading travel and tourism trade. WTM Africa is an international event that provides a platform to showcase your travel and tourism products to serious buyers. “We know that you don’t need too many reasons to spend a week in Cape Town, the hashtag #LoveCapeTown says it all, but just in case WTM Africa has put together their reasons why you absolutely must attend this extraordinary three-day show in Cape Town from 10-12 April 2019.” WTM Africa is the ultimate meeting place for the African travel industry, with US$365-million worth of business deals written in 2017 alone! They focus on both inbound and outbound travel within Africa, offering attendees a comprehensive exhibition that brings together both aspects of the travel industry. In 2019, there is the exciting addition of a dedicated Hosted Buyer Programme specifically for the outbound exhibitors. WTM Africa 2019 takes place in Cape Town in April. Through research conducted with stakeholders within the travel sector, this is the best time in the annual buying cycle for both buyers searching for new and exciting products to offer their clients. “Through our Buyer Insights Programme, we are able to assist exhibitors in both presenting and positioning their products to international and local buyers. A host of international speakers from across the globe will focus on pertinent topics and travel trends affecting the modern travel industry.” WTM Africa Festivals will once again give everyone the opportunity to socialise after the traditional working hours in a fun and vibrant atmosphere. Those attending will experience the culture, hospitality and cuisine from various exhibitors offering something unique. Attendees can pre-plan their three days by utilising the world-class diary system offered by WTM Africa, with the functionality to request meetings with fellow exhibitors and the ability to block out times in the diary. Trending bolt-on events with international and local speakers: Sports and Events Tourism Exchange (SETE), Digital Tourism Summit by E-Tourism Frontiers, African Investment Summit and the Responsible Tourism Destinations’ Conference. Local and international digital influencers will be on hand to help you learn more about how to further your marketing objectives through online platforms and partnerships. Increased focus will be shone on niche tourism sectors at WTM Africa 2019 with dedicated areas on the show floor, namely spa and wellness tourism, film tourism, a pink travel pavilion, and adventure tourism pavilion and food and wine tourism. Travel Professionals in both the outbound and inbound tourism sectors are encouraged to join us at WTM Africa in Cape Town this year.