The City of Cape Town and Table Mountain Cableway today, 26 April 2019, announced a collaboration to ensure that Table Mountain, one of the New 7 Wonders of Nature, is accessible to even more locals and domestic visitors. This announcement came off the back of a meeting that was held between the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Assets and Facilities Management, Alderman James Vos, and Wahida Parker, the Cableway’s Managing Director. ‘The meeting happened at a most opportune time as the City is busy finalising a Draft Tourism Development Framework, which aims to boost domestic tourism by ensuring visitor comfort, improving and diversifying products and experiences, stimulating demand, as well as generating community involvement, benefits and support. ‘Cape Town is packed with amazing and affordable things to do and has something for everyone even those on a tight budget. ‘We have committed to building an inclusive city and to make our tourism offerings accessible to residents from all communities. I am proud to be a part of this inclusive city, which is listed as one of the most diverse cities in the world. Through the Framework, my focus is to champion the further diversification of our tourism products to continue to drive local demand that makes business sense,’ said Alderman Vos. The Cableway already offers year-round deals which are tailored to locals including the 3-for-1 Kidz Season which was launched today, 26 April 2019, and will run until 30 September 2019; the half-price Sunset Special; Birthday Special; Pensioner Special; the Student Special as well as a year-round access cable card. While the Class in the Clouds Programme, where learners pay R45 to experience the cable car ride and to learn about the fauna and flora at the top of the mountain, has hosted over 250 000 learners since its inception in 2001. ‘The City fully endorses these promotions as it aligns with our objective of making local tourism attractions more accessible to locals, while showcasing the uniqueness of our tourism landscape. South Africa’s major tourist attractions need to encourage domestic tourism through increased accessibility, affordability and local-orientated offerings,’ said Alderman Vos. In partnership with the City, the Cableway aims to explore additional avenues to complement its promotional offers for locals. ‘The Cableway is committed to ensuring that more South Africans get to experience the bucket-list beauty of Table Mountain at least once in their life-time. We aim to embed a desire to celebrate Table Mountain in the hearts of everyone by breaking barriers that may prevent some people from getting to the top of the mountain. We want to make a trip to the top of South Africa’s New 7 Wonder of Nature more accessible for the elderly, the youth, the unsung local heroes and those who are marginalised by society,’ said Parker. For more information please visit www.tablemountain.net  