The Rubik, a newly launched luxury mixed-use building situated in the heart of Cape Town’s CBD is set to challenge property development in South Africa with its iconic and unique architecture and design. Located on the corner of Loop and Riebeek Streets, The Rubik consists of premium residential apartments above luxury offices and high-end retail space, housed within a distinctive modern glass clad “tiered” building that is reminiscent of the Rubik’s cube.
Marketed by Dogon Group Properties, developed by Abland – one of South Africa’s leading property developers – in partnership with Nedbank and Giflo and designed by DHK Architects, the apartments, penthouses and offices within The Rubik feature floor to ceiling windows, 24 hour concierge security, state-of-the-art technology, fixtures and finishes, minimalist elements and lots of clean open spaces. These features – coupled with the prime location and spectacular views over Table Mountain, Lion’s Head and the ocean offer highly desirable inner city living.
“The beautiful and modern The Rubik has a distinctly international feel that is in tune with global trends and influences,” says Rob Stefanutto, MD of Dogon Group Developments. “This exciting building, which will stand as a design beacon in Cape Town’s CBD, allows buyers to live and work in a distinctive space within the bustling centre of one of the world’s most beautiful cities. Loop Street is vibrant and cosmopolitan, known for its night life, historic buildings, art galleries, antique shops, restaurants, bars and cafés.” Work on The Rubik is expected to commence in June 2019 with completion in July 2021. “When this property came up for sale, we wasted no time in its acquisition as the location is perfect for a mixed use development. Abland have undertaken numerous high rise developments in the Cape Town CBD and we are very excited to bring this vision to life,” says Jurgens Prinsloo, Abland’s Regional Manager, who explains that the building will have a modern glass facade – with offices that are double-glazed – an air-conditioning system that doesn’t use water evaporation for cooling, energy efficient lighting and water heating systems which are in keeping with green star initiatives. Abland have an impressive track record when it comes to mixed-use developments and have mastered the process of creating a product that meets consumer demands – which includes things such as location, access to amenities, transport, security, sustainability, and connectivity to retail environments – just some of the key elements that must be considered.