When it comes to interior design, the final element that ties the room together – while enhancing the standout décor pieces – is lighting. The intricacies of this particular interior design item will be beautifully showcased by lighting experts, Fundi Light & Living at the 2019 Decorex Cape Town taking place at the Cape Town International Convention Centre from 1-5 May 2019. “Over the past few years, we’ve enjoyed watching the emergence of lighting as a dominant design feature, rather than an afterthought,” said Sian Cullingworth, Portfolio Director at Reed Exhibitions. “The product variations, styles and materials available nowadays offer the perfect lighting solution for every interior and exterior space. We are thrilled to welcome Fundi Light & Living – leaders in this industry – to feature at the latest Decorex Cape Town installation, The Lighting Project.” Cathy Newton, Managing Director of Wire World – exclusive manufacturers and distributors of Fundi Light & Living – explained that the choice of lighting can completely transform the mood of any space: “To achieve the proper atmosphere, you need to first understand the different types of light and how they interact with each other. Ambient, functional and accent lighting all need to be considered when the function of the room is determined.” She said the incorrect lighting method could have disastrous effects on the overall feel: “A restaurant owner would not put harsh fluorescent lighting above his dining area tables, nor would a business owner put dark ambient lighting in his office area.”Fundi Light & Living share the top 3 lighting trends for 2019: Artisanal Lighting, Minimalism and Sustainability.
Get to Decorex Cape Town where Fundi Light & Living will showcase a trendy selection of table lamps, floor lamps and pendants in The Lighting Project. Expect inspired lighting solutions such as woven lights in resin and recycled t-shirt yarn; contemporary lampstands in birch ply and sustainable oak; and lighting selections in wire, covered in a variety of fabrications – all of which are proudly South African made. In addition to The Lighting Project, Decorex Cape Town will feature: Decorex Urban Living Trend House with Sevens, InStudio Trend Theatre by ABSA, Children’s Playroom & Décor Project, The Trend Kitchen, Kitchen Design Project by the Studio Collection, The Bathroom Project, The Designer Project, Decorex International, Gourmet Cooking Theatre, Wine & Bubbly Bar furnished by Homewood, The Gin & Rum Garden and Design & Dine Restaurant + Bar.