With the arrival of BOFT Instant Photo Printing Kiosks in South Africa, mobile-phone photographers can enjoy beautiful Polaroid-type prints of any of the photos stored on their phones, or direct from their Instagram feeds. Boft is leading the global movement to keep memories alive through the provision of photo printing kiosks that give customers a convenient way to print great quality photos from their phones. Simply connect your phone via Bluetooth or wifi, select the photos and print. Boft kiosks showcase first class design and build, plus reliable hardware – a 32” waterproof touch screen with HD camera displays your pictures in the brightest colours so you can adjust (for example to include your IG caption, or not) and print them. Boft’s 4-million customers have already printed 17-million photos in 30 countries including the USA, Australia and Switzerland – and now their kiosks are popping up in Africa! The first kiosks are located at Cape Town’s V&A Waterfront, outside Woolworths on the ground floor and one next to the lifts on the 1st floor near Guess. “Boft gives people an easy way of printing their favourite memories. A print of your special moments is something that remains timeless, whether you stick it on your fridge, in a memory book, or give it to someone special,” says Micaela Einhorn, Managing Director of Zahava Prints Pty Ltd and owner to exclusive rights to BOFT in South Africa. “The kiosks also offer great opportunities for brands to engage with their audience, whether it’s through collaborations and activations, the digital advertising on the kiosks, or at corporate events,” says Einhorn. “The kiosks have ad integration and are able to show video ads and complex advertising mechanics. Campaigns to date include well-known brands like Kinder and Yves Rocher.” Einhorn has been living in Australia for the past 13 years, travelling back to South Africa every year to visit family. Now that she is back, she is passionate and committed to delivering this instant printing solution to South Africa. Read more articles 