One of the world’s biggest classical stars, Andrea Bocelli has confirmed two South African tour dates in 2019. Tickets go on sale Friday 25th January 2019 at 9am from Big Concerts and Computicket. Discovery Card holders get an exclusive 48 pre-sale from 23rd January 2019 at 9am. Go to www.discovery.co.za for more info. Presented by CapeTalk, 702 and Channel 24. Andrea Bocelli has recorded 15 solo studio albums of both pop and classical music, three greatest hits albums and nine complete opera. For his latest release ‘Si’, Andrea Bocelli has teamed up with some of the hottest musical stars on the planet – reuniting with his friend Ed Sheeran after their chart-topping ‘Perfect Symphony’ on a brand new song called ‘Amo Soltanto Te’ (written by Ed with lyrics by Tiziano Ferro) and joining with pop sensation Dua Lipa on the single ‘If Only’. Crossover superstar Josh Groban and classical soprano Aida Garifullina also duet with Bocelli on the record,. It is his first album of new material in 14 years – 16 brand new songs which celebrate love, family, faith and hope. At the centre of the new record is a spine-tingling duet between father-and-son, as 20 year old Matteo Bocelli steps into the limelight to duet with Andrea on ‘Fall On Me’ – a beautifully poignant song which reflects the bond between parent and child. Andrea explains how his voice compares with Matteo’s: “Technically they are very different, but there is one thing that makes them most similar: the attitude. That characteristic way of expressing yourself through your voice. This makes Matteo and I very similar. But that is something that you cannot learn, that cannot be taught. That is something you are born with.” Bocelli’s humble manner belies his international status as one of the world’s biggest classical stars – he’s sung for Popes, Presidents and royalty, performed in all the greatest concert halls and opera houses around the world, and sold 85 million records. He has performed at major international events including the Olympic Games and the World Cup, as well as his own sell-out arena shows. He has a Golden Globe, 7 Classical BRITs and 7 World Music Awards under his belt, plus a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Drawing millions in with his popular crossover appeal, Bocelli has collaborated with a host of A-list pop stars including Céline Dion, Tony Bennett, Ed Sheeran, Ariana Grande, Jennifer Lopez, Nicole Scherzinger, and many more. He also wowed UK football fans with a performance for Claudio Ranieri’s Premier League-winning Leicester City at the King Power Stadium in 2016. Bocelli continues to tour the world with major shows in the US, Germany, Italy, Spain, Brazil, Canada, Ireland the UK and now South Africa, where fans will have the opportunity to hear his new music. Andrea Bocelli is proud to return to South Africa where he will be performing with a full 140-piece symphony orchestra and choir. In Johannesburg, he will perform with the Johannesburg Festival Orchestra and the Symphony Choir of Johannesburg and in Cape Town with the Cape Town Philharmonic Orchestra and Choir. The concert will be split into 2 parts. For the first part, fans will get to experience Andrea Bocelli perform some of the most famous opera arias. The second part will be dedicated to his most popular hit and crossover songs for a once in a lifetime evening. Matteo Bocelli will also be joining his father to perform the duet ‘Fall On Me’. The Ticketpro Dome will feature Andrea Bocelli on 18 April 2019 in Johannesburg, while the Cape Town show will be held at Val de Vie Estate in Paarl on 22 April 2019. The polo field of Val de Vie Estate, enfolded by three awe-inspiring mountain ranges, will act as the natural open-air amphitheatre for the first ever concert of Andrea Bocelli in the Western Cape. Set against a symphony of sunset colours, attendees of the exclusive event can expect a unique experience in one of the most beautiful settings in Africa. Val de Vie is situated within 35 minutes from Cape Town International Airport and 40 minutes from Cape Town. The town of Paarl is 8 minutes away and Franschhoek 15 minutes. Three gates allow access to the estate, including the new Berg River gatehouse and bridge that connect the estate to the R45 Simondium road and a short distance from Stellenbosch, only 15 minutes away. Tickets and hospitality available from www.bigconcerts.co.za starting Friday 25th January 2019 at 9am. Read more articles