Carrol Boyes recently commissioned international award-winning design and interior architectural practice, Dakota Design, to re-envision its V&A Waterfront store. The intention was to reinvigorate and refine the Carrol Boyes brand in order to appeal to the next generation of consumers while remaining a timeless, high-end exclusive store. The new concept focuses on refurbishing the interior layout and finishes with the aim of taking the familiar style of Carrol Boyes into the future. The Carrol Boyes product range encompasses over 1 000 items which include the company’s trademark metals and materials such as pewter, spun and cast aluminum, stainless steel, chrome-plated zinc, wood, leather, ceramic and glass. Product extensions such as chocolate, wine and textiles have broadened this original footprint and needed their own newly designed fixtures for optimum display. “Due to the expansion in the product range, we now have durable, fit-for-purpose units with flexible shelving solutions to withstand the foot traffic of a retail store, but discreet enough to let the products shine. The refit enabled the creation of more display areas than the store had previously, with each one showcasing the different ranges on offer at the store.” The use of walnut in key shop fitted elements, paired with a timber-look, chevron-patterned floor, represents the warmth of a sophisticated home. In order to create the illusion of space in the store, bronze mirrors were incorporated into the interior décor. Smoky glass was used to add to the premium boutique effect. The Carrol Boyes logo was transformed into an LED-illuminated, window-mounted sign which is fixed to the shop front. This creates the impression that it’s floating, making it more visible and giving it greater impact. Directional LED lighting was also used throughout the store to highlight various products. LED lighting generates less heat which requires less cooling in the store and is more environmentally friendly. The design of the store was driven by the Carrol Boyes product, to showcase the product with maximum visibility on a platform with strong contrasts to the reflections of the products. The feature dining table at the entrance of the store creates a platform for selected Carrol Boyes items to be displayed and the cement pendant lighting above the table further adds to the home-like atmosphere. Call-out spaces were created in the store to highlight various items. For instance, the feature wall behind the point-of-sale illuminates Carrol Boyes’ bestselling iconic items. Read more articles