Sixty four Blue Flags will be proudly flown at 45 beaches, 9 marinas and by 10 sustainable tourism boats around South Africa over the forthcoming 2019/20 South African Blue Flag season. The season officially opened on 1 November with the announcement at the National WESSA Blue Flag launch hosted by the V & A Waterfront on 23 October 2019. The Western Cape has achieved the highest number of Blue Flag sites, with 33 beaches, 10 boats and seven of the nine Blue Flag marinas. The Blue Flag programme also allows for potential Blue Flag sites to participate in the Pilot Programme. This year will see 35 beaches across our three coastal provinces on this development phase of the programme. WESSA will work with beach managers from these Pilot beaches, towards the longer-term goal of achieving full Blue Flag status. Part of this support includes the provision of Tourism Beach Stewards to these beaches, over the busiest holiday periods. An impressive 40% of the Blue Flag beach sites have been on the programme for 10 or more consecutive years, while 7 of those sites have been on for 15 or more consecutive years. This season also sees the addition of four brand new sites to the programme. WESSA is proud to be the national implementing partner for Blue Flag in South Africa since 2001. List of 2019/20 Blue Flag Beaches, Boats & Marina’s in the Western Cape: BEACHES: City of Cape Town – Silwerstroomstrand, Clifton 4th, Camps Bay, Llandudno, Muizenberg, Strandfontein, Mnandi, Bikini, Melkbosstrand, Fish Hoek. Cape Agulhas – Struisbaai. Overstrand- Kleinmond, Hawston, Grotto, Castle beach. Hessequa – Witsand, Preekstoel, Lappiesbaai, Jongensfontein, Gouritzmond, Stilbaai Wes. Mossel Bay – De Bakke, Hartenbos, Klein Brak, Santos, Glentana. Knysna – Brenton-on-Sea. Bitou – Robberg 5, Keurboomstrand, Nature’s Valley, Lookout, The Dunes, Singing Kettle. SUSTAINABLE BOATING OPERATORS: Offshore Adventures – Robberg Express, Oceanic Express. Dyer Island Cruises – Whale Whisperer, Dream Catcher. Marine Dynamics – Slashfin. Ocean Odyssey – Oyster Catcher, Sousa, Odysseus. Great White Shark Tours – Apex Predator. White Shark Ventures – Megalodon II. MARINA’S: V&A waterfront, False Bay Yacht Club, Thesen Islands, The Water Club, Yachtport SA, and Harbour Island.