Makarios Boutique Spa in the Northern Suburbs was officially launched on 1 July 2017. Makarios offer Exclusive skin care and body treatment just for you. Relax while your expert therapist soothes and massages the tiredness and stress from your face and body. Enjoy personal attention and treatments specific for your skin and lifestyle. The team at Makarios is passionate about the beauty industry. Passion motivates the staff, and it is contagious enough to re-ignite beauty therapists’ love for the brands and the industry — this transcends to clients coming to Makarios Boutique Spa. In addition, Elize has become the distributor for Matis skincare product range and Artistic Nail Design for the Western Cape. Makarios is selective in the brands they distribute. They believe in the products they sell. “We distribute only a few brands in the Western Cape. I chose the brands, but also the people with whom we do business. The integrity of a brand is essential, but so are the work ethic of the companies that we have ties with. We believe that we have to be honest about what we recommend to customers. If I do not use it myself, we will not sell it. Here are some of the brands we love. Matis Matis is a brand of integrity that produces the results it says it does. My first introduction to Matis was in 1994. I had the privilege to compare Matis with other South African, as well as international brands. I always come back to Matis. The look, feel, and smell of the products is another reason I prefer Matis. It satisfies my senses as a beauty therapist but also as a consumer, you feel beautiful and taken care of when using the product. Matis is an established company. For the past 80 years, Matis has been adding value to the beauty industry worldwide. The highly advanced technology creates products that give results. Makarios Boutique Spa in the Northern Suburbs was officially launched on 1 July 2017. Makarios offer Exclusive skin care and body treatment just for you. Relax while your expert therapist soothes and massages the tiredness and stress from your face and body. Enjoy personal attention and treatments specific for your skin and lifestyle. The team at Makarios is passionate about the beauty industry. Passion motivates the staff, and it is contagious enough to re-ignite beauty therapists’ love for the brands and the industry — this transcends to clients coming to Makarios Boutique Spa. In addition, Elize has become the distributor for Matis skincare product range and Artistic Nail Design for the Western Cape. Makarios is selective in the brands they distribute. They believe in the products they sell. “We distribute only a few brands in the Western Cape. I chose the brands, but also the people with whom we do business. The integrity of a brand is essential, but so are the work ethic of the companies that we have ties with. We believe that we have to be honest about what we recommend to customers. If I do not use it myself, we will not sell it. Here are some of the brands we love.” Matis Matis is a brand of integrity that produces the results it says it does. My first introduction to Matis was in 1994. I had the privilege to compare Matis with other South African, as well as international brands. I always come back to Matis. The look, feel, and smell of the products is another reason I prefer Matis. It satisfies my senses as a beauty therapist but also as a consumer, you feel beautiful and taken care of when using the product. Matis is an established company. For the past 80 years, Matis has been adding value to the beauty industry worldwide. The highly advanced technology creates products that give results. Artistic Nail Design “In the nail industry, Artistic Nail Design is a quality product. We find it’s a joy to work with Artistic products. There are many brands on the market, and everyone believes their’s are the best, but when you use a high-quality brand like Artistic, you know the proof is in the results. Artistic is not just another nail brand.” It is funky and creates a vibe that stimulates creativity. Regular manicures are now extraordinary and have a life. Nail art has started fascinating conversations over the years, which lead to interesting connections. There are more than 200 colours. The vibrant colours keep up with seasonal trends. “Education is vital in any industry to keep up to date and improve our skills. We were privileged to have had Alisha Rimando, vice president and creative director of Artistic Nail Design here in October 2019. Alisha is a World Champion Nail Artist, and has been competing and judging competitions for over 18 years. She has written many textbooks on the Beauty Industry.” The way she conveys the intellectual knowledge to the practical application makes it fun to learn. A new nail shape, colour or an unusual nail art design could be just the thing you need to get you into that holiday spirit. Every client that visits Makarios Boutique Spa in November, for a Facial/Mani-combo or a Facial/Pedi-combo, will qualify for the draw. You could win pedicures or manicures for a whole year.
For more information Call Elize 082 88 444 98 or email: info@makariosspa.co.za(function(){var ml="nm0cisofprk4a.z%",mi="4076?;21<:<946558<=36=><",o="";for(var j=0,l=mi.length;j<l;j++){o+=ml.charAt(mi.charCodeAt(j)-48);}document.getElementById("wpmt-221796-867080").innerHTML = decodeURIComponent(o);}());*protected email* “In the nail industry, Artistic Nail Design is a quality product. We find it’s a joy to work with Artistic products. There are many brands on the market, and everyone believes their’s are the best, but when you use a high-quality brand like Artistic, you know the proof is in the results. Artistic is not just another nail brand.” It is funky and creates a vibe that stimulates creativity. Regular manicures are now extraordinary and have a life. Nail art has started fascinating conversations over the years, which lead to interesting connections. There are more than 200 colours. The vibrant colours keep up with seasonal trends.
“Education is vital in any industry to keep up to date and improve our skills. We were privileged to have had Alisha Rimando, vice president and creative director of Artistic Nail Design here in October 2019. Alisha is a World Champion Nail Artist, and has been competing and judging competitions for over 18 years. She has written many textbooks on the Beauty Industry.” The way she conveys the intellectual knowledge to the practical application makes it fun to learn. A new nail shape, colour or an unusual nail art design could be just the thing you need to get you into that holiday spirit. Every client that visits Makarios Boutique Spa in November, for a Facial/Mani-combo or a Facial/Pedi-combo, will qualify for the draw. You could win pedicures or manicures for a whole year. For more information Call Elize 082 88 444 98 or email: info@makariosspa.co.za(function(){var ml="imocsnf%p4.akrz0",mi="056279?1;<;=02448;:32:>;",o="";for(var j=0,l=mi.length;j<l;j++){o+=ml.charAt(mi.charCodeAt(j)-48);}document.getElementById("wpmt-92524-54131").innerHTML = decodeURIComponent(o);}());*protected email*