Mrs Western Cape 2020, Natasha Hunter, celebrated her crowning with the Springboks winning the World Cup. Mrs Western Cape is part of the official provincial pageants held annually in every province of South Africa. “Each year we crown not only a queen but rather a philanthropist, mother, wife, warrior, woman of strength and courage.” This annual philanthropic pageant searches for individuals with leadership skills, who wish to make a positive difference in their community. This title provides a platform from which they can work on community uplifting, whilst representing their province and ultimately, our country. Role Models Foundation’s slogan: “Inspiring hope in the heart of the community through purpose driven pageants”. Natasha Hunter was crowned the new reigning Mrs Western Cape 2020 Queen on the 2nd November 2019 in the Mother City, Cape Town. While everyone were in green and gold supporting our Springboks, the Mrs Western Cape Finalist was sneaking away from make-up, hair and preparations for a quick glans at the game in evening glam and glitter wear. With the Springbok’s victory and all the cheering and celebration in the Mother City, these sophisticated ladies were more than psyched to bring their own victories home. Natasha Hunter was crowned Mrs Western Cape 2020, Amy-Caie April the 1st Princess and Amanda van der Westhuizen the 2nd Princess. It was an emotional moment for Natasha when the organizers asked her husband Jaco Hunter to the stage to crown her. Natasha Hunter, 29 comes from Suikerbossie Guest farm, in the Koue-Bokkeveld at the most southern part of the Cederberg. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Business, is passionate about green living, and loves being barefoot in the mountains. She currently works at Sonop Solar. “I am so honored to represent our beautiful province, the Western Cape,” says Natasha Hunter, our own local and cultivated country woman. “Our country is the place there I thrive and the people in our region, are just the best. Western Cape has it all. Most beautiful people, nature, mountains and sea.” Natasha Hunter will help raise awareness and funds for the nonprofit origination Rolemodels foundation during her reign. She also hopes to shine more light on the farmers, agriculture and what they do for our economy. The Western Cape is the jewel of South Africa and she is proud to be an ambassador for it.