Innovation for the Blind has recently launched their Valentine’s Campaign, where everyone can share their love. Says Albie Heigers, CEO of Innovation for the Blind: “We’ve recently launched our puzzle in the shape of a heart to raise R100 000 towards our Dream Fund. Each puzzle piece is worth R1 000, but you can contribute from as little as R50. There are so many expressions of love, from romantic love to love for your family, love of creating such as drawing, painting or writing, to love of coffee or chocolate.” As Nat King Cole and Frank Sinatra sang, ‘love is a many splendored thing. It’s the April rose that only grows in the early spring. Love is nature’s way of giving a reason to be living. The golden crown that makes a man a king …’ This popular song with music by Sammy Fain and lyrics by Paul Francis Webster, was first publicised in the movie, Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing (1955), for which it won the Academy Award for Best Original Song. And with Valentine’s Day just around the corner, it still holds true. If you would like to share some love, all you need to do is donate an amount to Innovation for the Blind’s Valentine’s Campaign via EFT, Paypal or Snapscan. Use the reference Love with your surname, and email your proof of payment to donations@innovationfortheblind.org. Heigers explains: “Once your email has been received, you will automatically be added to our lucky draw to win one of three Blind Boxes, which is such a unique gift for a loved one. It includes a bottle of The Blind Tasting, a KWV red blend and 250g of the Blindiana Blend Filter Coffee, all packed by the blind in a beautiful box. Yes, true love’s a many splendored thing – it doesn’t matter what form it takes.” Residents at Innovation for the Blind, Daantjie and Alta Molentze, met in 1975 and have been married for almost 27 years. According to Daantjie, their mutual love of music definitely added to their successful marriage. “We both love music. Alta plays the piano and that’s exactly what attracted me to her at school, when we first met.” Despite being born blind, world-renowned adventurer Hein Wagner has many accomplishments to his name. He completed the Absa Cape Epic, ran the Antarctica Marathon, the Two Oceans and New York Marathons, completed full Ironman, competed in the World Triathlon Series in Cape Town, finished several Cape Town Cycle Tours, tackled the white waters of the Zambezi River, climbed the ten highest mountains in the Western Cape, completed the Cape to Rio Yacht Race, holds the World Blind Land Speed Record at 322.52 km/h, and more. “But to me the most important form of love, is my love for my family. Without them, I’d feel completely unfulfilled. They mean everything to me.” Danelle van Deventer has low vision and joined Innovation for the Blind in 2000. She enjoys creating beautiful artworks. Says Van Deventer: “I love drawing. I always find it inspiring, even on days when I’m not feeling great.” Carleigh du Plessis, on the other hand, loves words. “People only know that I’m blind. They have no idea what I’m capable of and how much words mean to me.” Joseph Matheatau joined Innovation for the Blind in 2014 and had the opportunity to be trained as the first blind barista. He says coffee is his greatest love. “I just love making coffee. I love the smell and knowing that it makes people happy – enjoying a simple cup of coffee.” According to Heigers, the Dream Fund aims to generate funds to provide for the special and recreational needs for the blind, deafblind and the multi-disabled persons at Innovation for the Blind.  He concludes: “Funds are used for the individual and often, indispensable, needs of our visually impaired residents – needs that they themselves are not always able to meet. Our main aim is to measurably improve the quality of life for the visually impaired in our care.” Visit www.innovationfortheblind.org or https://innovationfortheblind.org/valentines-campaign/ – sharing made simple Read more articles