Brain health is set to take centre stage in 2019 with research showing that nutrition, sleep and stress management are among the most important factors influencing mental wellness.
Health expert, Vanessa Ascencao, says there’s an increasing global focus on brain health while an informal survey of popular health books shows that those on mental health are now more popular than books on diet and exercise. Nutrition, stress and sleep play a major role in mental health. Research shows that one in three adults don’t get enough sleep and Ascencao says disrupted sleep or getting less than seven hours a day may contribute to mental distress, depression and anxiety. Lack of sleep is also associated with cardiovascular risk and obesity. Additionally, a balanced diet, effective stress management and high quality supplements are important for brain health and general wellness, adds Ascencao. She says research shows that a lack of essential nutrients may contribute to poor mental health while there is increasing evidence linking diet with mental health and for the select use of supplements to address deficiencies.“Many high-quality supplements may contribute to brain health. In particular, scientists have found that the enzyme booster PQQ helps improve brain function, learning and memory. A study has also found that supplementing with CoQ10 lowers cardiovascular risk which is why Biomax PQQ with CoQ10 is a great for both cognitive and heart health.” Ascencao says it’s well known that Omega-3 fatty acids found in fish oil play an important role in brain function but these are often not ingested in sufficient quantities or of a high enough quality. “Choose supplements such as Purest Omega 3, produced from a sustainable source of the highest quality, wild-caught certified fish oils from Alaska and free from GMO, mercury, pollutants, hormones and anti-biotics which are sometimes found in modern fish farming”. Ascencao’s top health tips for 2019: Be mindful about what you put into and how you treat your body; aim to eat whole, natural foods such as fruits and vegetables and drink lots of water, try to get eight hours of solid uninterrupted sleep a night. This will impact positively on your wellbeing; identify stress triggers and avoid them. Be mindful of where you focus your thoughts and energy; Keep moving. A sedentary lifestyle may lead to weight gain and negative thoughts; avoid processed foods and sugar-laden drinks, and consult a nutritionist about a good supplement regime. Read more articles