This February, the V&A Waterfront invites visitors to celebrate and enjoy art, innovation and all things creative with a series of events in a month-long campaign themed Artventure.  Free event  Free event  Free event  Free event  Free event  Free event  Free event  Free event  Free event  Free event  Auction 6.30pm  Tickets for purchase  Until 17 February, #FREESPACE will continue to draw together academics, artists, performers, developers, activists and the public to present performances and participate in the ongoing debate about urban public space. For the programme and times, visit https://www.freespace.events. On 6 February, the One Thousand Voices by Owanto opens on level 2 of Zeitz MOCAA from 11am to 12.30pm. The exhibition includes a collection of audio testimonies from female genital mutilation survivors showcasing their various stories of survival and strength. For more info, visit https://zeitzmocaa.museum/exhibition/lectures-forums/one-thousand-voices-panel-discussion/ Between 6 and 17 February, the Art Week Public Programme kicks off at Zeitz MOCAA with a wide variety of activities for the whole family to enjoy. Events such as panel discussions, exhibitions and children’s workshops will take place from 10am to 6pm. Artist Brett Murray will unveil his latest exhibition Hide at the Everard Read gallery from 6 to 27 February. This important new body of work comments on global threats and contemporary politics. The exhibition opening starts at 6:45pm. For more info, visit https://www.everard-read-capetown.co.za/exhibition/162/press_release/ The solo exhibition by Doktor and Misses entitled Practically Everywhere presents collectible designs and sculptures inspired by the disorder and decay of urban ecosystems. The exhibition opening will be held in store at Southern Guild on 13 February from 6pm to 9pm. It will run through to May. For more info, visit http://www.art.co.za/galleries/exhibition-page.php?nom=7034 Southern Guild will host the Designer Walkabout on 16 February, with the designers of “Practically Everywhere”, Adriaan Hugo and Katy Taplin to describe their unique sculptures and designs. The walkabout starts at the Southern Guild store from 11am, ending at 12pm. Every day from 11am to 4pm between 13 and 17 February, the Watershed will host art exhibitions where visitors can interact with the artists and makers behind the various art and design offerings at the Watershed. From 14 to 17 February, spend each evening enjoying a glass of wine and selection of cheese while engaging in discussions with surprise artists and their artwork at Nocturne. The gala evening will take place at the Art@Africa Gallery in the Clock Tower Mall from 6pm to 10pm. For ART Fair Gallery Night on 15 February, all galleries in and around Cape Town will remain open until 9pm. The participating galleries at the V&A Waterfront include the Southern Guild, Everard Read, Art@Africa Gallery and Gavin Collins Gallery. On 16 February Strauss Art will host a contemporary art live auction  at the Cape Town Cruise Terminal at 6:30pm. Guests are welcome to a preview on the day from 10am to 6:30pm. Welcome drinks will begin at 5:30pm. For more info, visit https://www.straussart.co.za/auctions/live#2018 #cocreateDESIGN FESTIVAL Cape Town 2019 is an initiative from the Kingdom of the Netherlands in South Africa and will run from 26 to 26 February. It aims to celebrate and examine the power of design as well as to tackle the current socio-economic and environmental challenges in the African context.  The event will take place at Workshop 17 in the Watershed from 8am to 5pm. Tickets may be purchased via www.quicket.co.za. Visitors can also enjoy an increasing number of sizeable outdoor artworks and sculptures nestled in public plazas and open spaces across the property that form part of the the V&A Waterfront’s ongoing Art in Public Places programme. Read more articles