The Discovery Triathlon World Cup Cape Town 2019 drew to a close on Sunday, 10 February. The men’s elite sprint race was dominated by Alex Yee (GBN) with a time of 00:52:04 in first place. He was followed closely by Tony Smoragiewicz (USA) and Joao Silva (POR) in third. The men’s race was left wide open after the race favourite and defending champion, Richard Murray, had to withdraw from the race having been unwell in the week leading up to the event. The women’s elite race ended with an exciting eight seconds between Ai Ueda (JPN) and Summer Rappaport (USA). They finished just under an hour in 00:57:23 and 00:57:31 respectively. Tamara Gorman (USA) came in third in 00:57:44. As the opening race of the 2019 International Triathlon Union (ITU) season, the event is the only World Cup triathlon to take place on African soil and also formed part of the Discovery Get Active Weekend. 2019 is an Olympic qualifying year “There’s been an extra special buzz in the air this year with the Olympic Games coming up,” said Gary Marescia, Discovery Get Active Weekend Event Director. “Both elite fields were extremely competitive, and filled with triathletes who have been counting on this race as an ideal opportunity to earn valuable Olympic qualifying points … and they aren’t leaving disappointed.” Marescia added that the event is a great platform for young aspiring athletes to develop their skills and racing confidence. “This year we were pleased to host the first ever African Junior Challenge, which saw promising 16 and 17 year old triathletes from seven African Countries compete.” Uniting people through sport and celebrating South Africa Reflecting on the event’s success, Iona Maclean, Head of Experiential Marketing at Discovery, said: “It’s always a pleasure to host races and events in the Mother City. Given the number of participants and amazing support from the crowd, it’s not surprising that Cape Town was recently named the most active city in Discovery’s Road to a Healthier SA. In 2018, Discovery, along with our international Vitality partners, committed to making 100 million people 20% more active by 2025. We’re thrilled that this weekend has kicked off South Africa’s contribution to the pledge, with over 7 000 participants of all ages and fitness levels being given the opportunity to get active in a variety of different events.” The City of Cape Town’s Alderman Jean-Pierre Smith – Mayoral Committee Member: Safety & Security Services, concluded, “It was a sporting event filled with thrills, entertainment and all out fun. The City of Cape Town would like to extend appreciation to all the athletes, fans who cheered enthusiastically on the side-lines and the event organisers for choosing Cape Town to be part of the Triathlon World Cup series. Hosting the Discovery Triathlon World Cup Cape Town is critical to our efforts of promoting job opportunities and developing the South African economy through increased spending at our attractions and across the hospitality industry. It was a pleasure to have these visitors to our shores and we look forward to welcoming them to the World’s Leading Festival and Event Destination again next year.” Swim/Bike/Run distance: 750m/20km/5km Women official results: 1.Ai Ueda (JPN), 00:57:23.9 2.Summer Rappaport (USA), 00:57:31.0 3.Tamara Gorman (USA), 00:57:44.4 Men official results: Read more articles