Nom Nom enthusiasts would’ve noted or even tasted the new changes at this popular eatery in Somerset West main road. A new year always invites new ideas and the Nom Nom team is ready and prepared to tantalize your taste buds with healthy bites as well as with those familiar nom-licious plates to soothe your cravings. Whether its ordering your old faithful sushi, a delicious raw fish bowl with spicy mayo, dunking fresh bread into a saucy trinchado or simply feasting on succulent ribs, patrons will be pleasantly surprised that there is indeed something for everyone. To make Nom Nom your go to restaurant of choice, the team has also introduced weekly specials to have you coming back for more. With Mondays being closed, they are kicking of every week with Taco Tuesdays. Guests have a choice between scrumptious fish or prawn tacos and will receive a Savanah loco absolutely free. As sushi remains a favourite across the board, they invite guests to pop in for Sushi Wednesdays or linger longer after work with a bottle of chilled Lighthouse Rosé while feasting on their inside out rolls at half the price. But, if the day has just dragged on and you missed out on the above, your dire need of a refreshing cocktail shall be quenched before the weekend arrives. Join them for their happy hour during Cocktail Thursdays. All cocktails are served at half price after 6pm on Thursdays. Before you know it, it’s the weekend, and cooking is the last thing on your mind. Bring your loved one for a casual date and enjoy a juicy beef burger with a free Stellenbrau Craven Lager every Friday. Oyster and gin lovers have not been forgotten either. But, you will have to jot this one into your dairy to get a group of friends together to turn this into a proper outing. Order six or more oysters and receive a double Cruxland Gin and Tonic on the house!
The team is eager to welcome you and will chill your wine like it’s their own. For those who want to discover Benguela Cove Wines, the waiters will recommend the perfect match for every dish. Should you want to discover the different wine on offer at your own pace, they will invite you for a tutored tasting in their upstairs wine bar. Guests can buy wines at cellar door prices as well and inquire about the wine club that grants you 15% discount every time you buy wine or frequent Nom Nom and its sister properties. No membership fees required. See you soon! For more information Contact: 021 851 6197, Opening times: 10am – 10pm Tues – Sat, Address: c/o Main road & Coronation Ave, Somerset West or visit www.nomnom.co.za Read more articles