The Cape Town Motor Show (CTMS) is set to wow the crowds again at GrandWest Casino and Entertainment World from 2-3 March 2019. The show promises two days of fun and excitement with a broad appeal to all car and bike buffs, petrol heads and the whole family, providing loads of entertainment for everyone. Now in its third year, the CTMS has grown to become a motor show that rivals some of the best in the world, and this year’s show promises to yet again deliver an even bigger and better spectacle. The show spans the length and breadth of GrandWest and features a complete range of domestic and imported passenger cars, bikes and trucks, as well as sport utility vehicles and experimental or concept cars. Visitors will have the opportunity to see numerous accessories and auto-related exhibits, competition vehicles, antique and collector cars, engine modifications, a Sound Off competition, virtual simulations, car wrapping, drifting, a large 4X4 outside area, live music and much more! The Wildebeest 4×4 Challenge Club will again host 4×4 tracks built for all classes of vehicles to challenge technical skills as well as the different vehicle capabilities. Off-the-showroom floor 4X4s as well as extreme 4X4s will be showcased, and visitors can purchase tickets to try this out for themselves. The impressive Grand Arena will host the best of the best of the top manufacturers and dealers, showcasing new cars and concepts in South Africa, including some past brands like Shelby, Road to Race, Audi, BMW, VW, Ford, Jaguar, Kia, Land Rover, Peugeot, Subaru, JEEP, Alfa Romeo to name a few. The Grand Arena will also once again have interactive test driving, following on from the success of this area in the 2018 show. The Nostalgia Zone will take you back in time to the “Good Ol’ Days’ with vehicles dating as far back as the 1920s. These are among the most rare and unique in the world.
Check out the beautifully restored vehicles and the products that make it possible for these classics to be modified back to their original manufactured or showroom conditions. Due to popular demand these fine cars will be found in their own dedicated area and there will be up to 80 cars on display. Exciting news is that CTMS will be giving away a custom MG at the 2019 show.This special project will boast a complete rebuild, some unique Cape Kustoms elements and a 3.9L Rover V8 motor. A lucky winner will walk away with the keys of this beauty at the show. For more information visit www.capetownmotorshow.co.za Read more articles