May is the month to enjoy flawless crisp, sunny afternoons; and where more beautiful than on the spacious surrounds of Spier Wine Farm in Stellenbosch?  Located on the edge of Spier’s historic Werf, is the exciting Vadas Smokehouse & Bakery. Splashed with vibrant colours, this Feng shui eatery is uplifting on the eye. The green and red banquettes along the walls are a new take on old classics and offer a warm welcome to this creative space. Art is as much a part of Spier as good food and fine wine are, and the walls at Vadas are outfitted with some of Spier’s most inspiring art.  The woven tapestries in the Vadas lounge area is by Spier Art Collection Curator Tamlin Blake, called Altered Yarns and are created from sheets of newspaper that are transformed into coloured ‘yarns’ by dying the paper, cutting it into narrow strips, joining the strips and spinning them on a homemade drop spindle to create a relatively strong, textured thread.” Also featured is the Creative Block art project, where both established and emerging artists create work on blank blocks. By selecting and hanging a number of individual blocks together, Vadas has created an impactful selection of artwork seen throughout the restaurant. Serving in all weather, Vadas Smokehouse & Bakery has a number of seating options including outside along the lawns, inside near the cosy fireplaces or on the popular bakery terrace. Available every morning from 7am-11am, Vadas offers their French-style Bakers Breakfast. Appreciate freshly baked farm loaves and delicate, flaky croissants with farm butter and house-made jams. Delight in cheese and bacon breadsticks, egg and ham cups and spiced buns. A selection of Dalewood cheese is available to enjoy with Farmer Angus charcuterie direct from the Spier farm. A barista serves your favourite cuppa and from 7am-9am you can enjoy all coffees for only R15. Don’t forget about Vadas’ now famous Pastéis de Nata; the much-loved Portuguese custard tarts which many claim are the best in the world! This winter from Monday – Saturday, Vadas is slicing 50% off its Chefs Platter. For just R200 pp (you save R195), feast on 6 dishes carefully selected by Chef PJ to showcase the best of what’s on the menu. For lunch and dinners, the guests are treated to innovative BBQ- style dishes such as smoked brisket, bourbon BBQ-glazed smoked ribs and pumpkin arancini as well as plenty of contemporary vegetarian sides to choose from. Friday evenings, in addition to their regular menu, Vadas showcases their                   stoneground Pizzas with options such as The Fat Butcher: bianco base with creamed leaks, salsa verde, bone marrow, thyme and smoked cheddar or The Porky: tomato base with buffalo mozzarella, Farmer Angus bacon, avo and feta.  The bakers breakfast is open from 7am – 11am 7 days a week. For lunch and dinner, kitchen operating hours: Monday to Saturday 12pm – 3pm & 6pm – 9pm and Sundays 12pm – 3pm For bookings contact 021 809 1137 or www.vadas.co.za