Warmwaterberg Spa and Mineral Hot Spring offers visitors an authentic rustic experience away from the stylish, luxury, five-star service of state-of-the-art Day Spa’s. The venue is rustic, close to earth, unspoilt, peaceful in a tranquil setting with healing elements in the water able to revitalize and rejuvenate the body and soul – meant for people who live close to nature and seek, “Water that Heals.” Warmwaterberg Spa and Mineral Hot Spring dates back to the early 19th century – with its setting in a farming community situated between Barrydale and Ladismith on Route 62. The history of the farm Warmwaterberg and the hot spring, situated on 600ha of land, is closely interwoven with the history of the Le Grange family who today, five generations and 119 years later, still remain in control of the property. Artesian Spring The Artesian Spring is the main attraction at Warmwaterberg Spa. This spring is believed to be 4-6km deep with a temperature at the source of 43.5° Celsius. The source of the water is almost a thousand years old and saturated with iron and manganese, but without any traces of Sulphur, which makes it unique. The water is untreated, has a high Iron content and therefore, extremely healthy and sweet-tasting. The water also contains traces of Lithium which has a soothing and calming impact on the human body. Regular visitors to Warmwaterberg Spa believe they have experienced healing from arthritis and various other ailments. The pool deck consist of two hot swimming pools, a cold pool as well as a number of roman baths on the property. The water is untreated and comes out of the earth as it is, and is piped to the pools without any additives. Self-catering Accommodation Warmwaterberg Spa offers only Self-catering accommodation. The 1890’s mud and stone buildings (“badhuisies” or “Bath Houses”) were originally constructed as bathrooms for travellers. The Main House constructed in 1907 became the Historic Sanatorium. Wooden Timber Chalets were later built, and camping sites made available to facilitate the demand.The Historic Bath Houses have been retained as close as possible to its original 1886 mud and stone design. The three-roomed building consist of two bedrooms, fully equipped kitchen with a fireplace, private toilet and outdoor “braai-facility.” The main bedroom has a double bed and private bath, while the second bedroom has two single beds and private bath. The Studio Bath Houses which were completed in 2015 are modern day tributes to the Historic Bath Houses. The studio units are fitted with a King size bed, custom built luxurious bath and indoor braai/fireplace and is suitable for couples looking for rest and relaxation. A toilet and shower is located outside the bedroom door in metal cylinders to add to the rustic experience. The fully bi-folding front doors provide an incredible indoor-outdoor flow, providing the perfect place to enjoy the Karoo environment. The Victorian styled ten roomed Main House or Sanatorium built in 1907 illustrates the architecture of a typical Karoo Victorian “ostrich” house of the early 20th century. Each of these rooms has a private bathroom with a walk-in 2000 litre Roman Bath where guests can luxuriate. All baths in the units are supplied with spring water at 43.5°Celsius. Three styles of Timber Chalets are available: one, two or three-bedroom units, each with its own kitchenette, shower and outdoor braai facility. The Timber Chalets offer one, two, or three bedrooms with kitchen, private bathroom and outside braai facilities. Although rustic and simple, they offer budget-consecious accommodation. The 20 Campsites are serviced with power and braai-facilities, while the ablution block offers natural hot water and contains two walk-in roman baths. Functions A typical example of Karoo vernacular is the Old School built in 1914 for the children of the area. This building has been kept in the same state it was built, and today caters for a group of 30 people. The original cement dam was reconstructed as a Lapa and serves as a focal point to the Restaurant, Bar, and Kiosk, and is ideal for weddings and social gatherings, providing seating for as many as 130 guests. Warmwaterberg Spa also facilitates a full-service licensed Restaurant and Bar, open every day of the year (excluding New Year’s Day), an off-sales as well as a small kiosk offering basic necessities to guests. Things to do While relaxing at Warmwaterberg Spa guests can enjoy the beautiful panoramic view of the elevated Klein Karoo landscape with five mountain ranges including the Warmwaterberg, Langeberg and Swartberg Mountains and a horizon stretching 90km in the distance. The views are spectacular, not to mention the sunrise and sunset, Milky Way and stars at night.
Barren and desolate as the area may seem to be the Succulent Plant Kingdom, unrivalled in specie numbers, diversity and beauty gives meaning to the peaceful and tranquil environment of Warmwaterberg Spa. The Spa provides its own spectacular 6km walking trail on the edge of the mountain taking you behind the spring eye where over 2000 different endemic species can be identified, and where the Springbok, Duiker and Steenbok ponder. For more information contact 028 572 1609 or visit www.warmwaterbergspa.co.za