Aimed at showcasing Cape Town and the Western Cape as a mecca of trail running, Wesgro teamed up with top trail-runners Ryan Sandes, Meg Mackenzie, Stu McConnachie and Nic Rupanga to create the Connected by Trail video series. The series was launched this morning in Cape Town. Made up of four 60-second videos, and an 8-minute documentary that was officially launched at the event, the series is set to show the rest of the world just how incredible – and diverse – the Western Cape trails really are. “Exploring not only the trails themselves, but the trail running community that has transformed the sport of trail running from a niche pastime to a mainstream activity, the series acts an ode to the adventurous spirit of the region, the passionate community that sustains it and their love affair with the outdoors. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the documentary, titled Connected by Trail” said Wesgro CEO, Tim Harris.  “All four of the athletes took part in the series without payment, acting as ambassadors for a region they are all passionate about and despite being household names in the sport, each spoke eloquently of one another, before speaking of themselves. Despite coming from different backgrounds, and being at very different stages of their running careers, each runner featured in the series spoke passionately about the Western Cape trail running community” explained Robert Peters, Wesgro’s project lead on the video series. “Growing up in Cape Town, and more recently as a professional trail runner, I have been able to take advantage of all those wild, open spaces that make it such a special place. I have been lucky enough to travel all around the world and this had made me realise what a special place we have back home. I am really fortunate to call Cape Town and the Western Cape my backyard” added Ryan Sandes, elite trail-runner. “It has been super cool to be a part of the Connected by Trail video project and to be able to promote Cape Town and the Western Cape through a sport that has given me so much” continued Sandes. The series has already been widely accepted by the greater running community with brands like Salomon and ASICS getting behind their athletes and promoting it across their own channels, both locally and abroad, while other local businesses like Jack Black Breweries have also put their own weight behind the videos. Shot in the Jonkershoek Nature Reserve, Mont Rochelle Nature Reserve and the Elgin Valley, the series also acts as a showcase of the myriad of options available to adventure and outdoor enthusiasts visiting the region. Remarkably many of these mountainous terrains are just minutes from the city, while regions like the Cape Winelands and Cape Overberg, which both boast incredible options, are just over an hour from Cape Town by car. The Western Cape Minister of Economic Opportunities and Finance, David Maynier, welcomed the series. “One of the primary activities tourists to the Western Cape undertake is adventure sports and the province’s geography and scenery make it an ideal trail running destination. The Connected by Trail series creates a stunning showcase of all that the province has to offer, and markets the Western Cape as an exciting trail running destination to the rest of the world. By creating experiences and opportunities that appeal to a wide range of visitors and interests, the Western Cape will be able to grow the tourism industry and boost job creation, in line with our Project Khulisa goals.” “From mountainous landscapes to rocky outcrops as old as the planet itself, the Western Cape is poised to become the next mecca of trail running and the Connected by Trail series is taking that message to the world” concluded Harris.