Red Bull Cape Town Circuit will give tens of thousands of South African fans the chance to witness the thundering power of a Formula 1 car at close quarters.  Red Bull Racing has brought the adrenaline-fuelled thrills of F1 racing to cities around the world, from Hanoi and Tokyo to Mexico City, and now Cape Town. Sure, you’ve watched a Grand Prix on TV, but there’s no substitute for the ear-splitting roar of the engine, the haze of tyre smoke and aroma of burning rubber.  Red Bull’s Racing cars will be speeding through the Mother City this year on 2 June 2019, with renowned drivers such as David Coulthard behind the wheels. After rumours circulating for weeks, it has finally been confirmed that Coulthard, the legend himself, will drive Red Bull’s car for the 2019 Red Bull Cape Town Circuit event.
Coulthard is a prime example of F1 glamour and prestige and his presence on the road will add an air of international flair to the long-awaited event. Overall, the iconic driver has raked in 13 race wins and 62 podium finishes, making him a force to be reckoned with. Aston Martin Red Bull Racing Team Principal Christian Horner, commented: “Formula 1 is a global sport, but with a finite number of countries on the racing calendar, it is down to our show car team to travel farther afield and share the speed and sound of our sport with as many fans as possible.” Red Bull Racing has taken the thrills of Formula 1 to far-flung cities and returns to South Africa to excite more fans in 2019. “We received an incredibly warm welcome when we first took our show car to Cape Town back in 2011 and we are delighted to return this year, powering the car down Cape Town’s iconic Grand Parade on June 2nd,” explains Horner. “South Africa has a great heritage in F1, stretching back to 1962, and we look forward to seeing fans, old and new, turn out in force to witness the spectacle.” Speaking at the Bahrain GP about the Cape Town showcase, Coulthard also shared his excitement: “I’m super excited to be in Cape Town in June for the Red Bull Circuit event. I’ll be driving the Formula One car, demonstrating the power, energy and excitement of what Grand Prix can bring. I haven’t been to South Africa since we were in Kyalami in 2011, so I’m delighted we’re bringing Formula One back to Cape Town. See you there, looking forward to it.”