Boasting one of the most idyllic settings for the magical sounds of classical music, the charming villages of Greyton and Genadendal, in the foothills of the Sonderend Mountains invite lovers of this genre to an enchanting musical experience, the annual Greyton Genadendal Classics for All festival. Now in its 15th year, Classics for All is an intimate, feel-good and unpretentious gathering for music lovers from all walks of life. The ethos behind this festival is to take audiences on an accessible classical music adventure, catering for the tastes of everyone, from the aficionado to the lesser devotee. International artists join top South African classical performers as well as musicians from the Overberg region to offer three days of music spanning opera, orchestral, choral, chamber, baroque and vocal works. To celebrate 15 years of classical music in Greyton and Genadendal, artists who have performed and supported the event many times since its inception, have been invited back to participate in this event, notably Philippus Hugo, Minette du Toit-Pearce, Zanne Stapelberg de Lange, Francois du Toit, Eric Dippenaar, Bridget Rennie-Salonen, Peter Martens and others. Ten concerts will be performed at the 2019 Classics for All Festival from 24 – 26 May. Performances include the Trio Du Cap Classique with French cellist David Pinoit performing with acclaimed flutist Liesl Stoltz and pianist Francois du Toit, the Lyric Trio of Suzanne Martens (violin), Peter Martens (cello) and Elna van der Merwe (piano), the Camerata Tinta Barocca presenting ‘Of Plants and Animals: Baroque music inspired by nature’, with Elsabé Richter (soprano), Bridget Rennie-Salonen (baroque flute), Cheryl de Havilland (baroque cello) and Erik Dippenaar (spinet), the Duo Infinite, consisting of percussionists Cherilee Adams and Dylan Tabisher joining forces with leading South African clarinetist Daniel Prozesky. Other highlights include a performance by the Rosanthorn Electric Cello Trio with Dorette Roos, Carol Thorns and Anjulie Nock, a concert with audience favourite Zanne Stapelberg de Lange, the Cape Town Youth Choir under the baton of Leon Starker and La Femme, a celebration of dance and music with internationally acclaimed dancer and choreographer Tanya Diamond, classical guitarist Nina Fourie-Gouws and members of the SoloFLAMENCO dance studio. The Cape Town Philharmonic Orchestra’s Junior String Ensemble and the choir of the Berea Moravian Primary School Choir will perform in a special concert aimed at children.
The gala event of this year’s festival features the talents of well-known mezzo soprano Minette du Toit-Pearce, making her 4th appearance at Classics for All, plus young singers currently making waves in the world of opera – soprano Britttany Hope Smith, tenor Keanan Lyle Mitchell and bass Garth Delport, directed by Philippus Hugo and accompanied by the Festival String Ensemble led by Valentine Koleva Vorster. “Join us for three days of wonderful music and genuine warm Overberg hospitality. Do some wine tasting, browse the many art galleries and indulge in the delicious country fare on offer in the local restaurants and street cafes-some of which will be offering classical busking – adding to the festive atmosphere in the villages.” For more information visit www.classicsforall.co.za