Judges were overwhelmed by the superior quality and sophisticated designs of this year’s Decorex Cape Town exhibitor stands. After long consultation, judges awarded the ‘Best Overall Stand’ to Caesarstone at this year’s Decorex Cape Town Exhibitor Stands Awards held on Wednesday, 1 May. “There were some incredibly innovative designs at this year’s Decorex Cape Town but the Caesarstone stand certainly stood out as a favourite for the judges,” said Anita Bloom, the Creative Director of Decorex SA. “It was minimalistic and beautiful, incorporating an exceptional use of shape, form, texture, lighting and quality with and a well-informed, receptive staff.” These annual awards, hosted on the first evening of Decorex Cape Town, reward the most dynamic exhibitors for their ingenuity in stand design. This year the awards welcomed an exclusive panel of judges tasked with selecting the top exhibitors in 14 awards’ categories. The judging panel included Michael Chandler of Chandler House; Petra Vonk of Petra Vonk Design; Bianca Resnekov, Cape Talk Style & Design correspondent; and Dave Nemeth of Trend Forward. The shortlisted awards’ candidates are put forward for the Excellence Awards which were assessed by the judging panel. The Decorex marketing team, led by Zoe van Niekerk, was then tasked with selecting the winner of the Marketing Award. This year’s recipient – Franke South Africa – made use of all marketing platforms as well as inviting a local street artist, Conform, to their stand, which created really captivating on-site content and engagement. Because of the extensive exhibitor participation at both Decorex Durban and Decorex Cape Town in 2019, the Decorex team has announced a new award category this year – Best Furniture Stand – to recognise this creative excellence. The new award category will be incorporated into the annual exhibitor stand awards going forward. The inaugural Decorex Cape Town Best Furniture Stand award was given to Roche Bobois. Outstanding kitchen designs made for tough competition at this year’s new feature, the Kitchen Design Project by The Studio Collection. Vinesh Maharaj of The Studio Collection presented the award to CCMI for their on-trend kitchen installation. Sian Cullingworth, Portfolio Director at Reed Exhibitions, congratulated all the 2019 winners on their unique and inspired stand designs. “Exhibition stand design is a real art and it is always so refreshing to see the latest décor and design products and trends showcased in such a dynamic manner,” said Cullingworth. “There was a real response to this year’s exhibition theme – ‘Designing for Africa – feels like home’ – and I think visitors to Decorex Cape Town will get a genuine feel for the trends and styles emanating from this beautiful continent.” Special thanks were also extended to i-Framez for sponsoring all the frames and certificates for the ceremony, as well as Lowe Furniture for designing the awards. DECOREX CAPE TOWN EXHIBITOR STAND AWARDS 2019 DECOREX CAPE TOWN CERTIFICATES OF EXCELLENCE Visitors to this year’s Decorex Cape Town – taking place at the Cape Town International Convention Centre from 1 to 5 May – will get to witness these award-winning stands, as well as enjoying the full features’ programme showcasing the latest in décor and design trends. DECOREX SA 2019 DETAILS Decorex Cape Town 1 – 5 May 2019 10am – 6pm daily Cape Town International Convention Centre Trade-focused day: 2 – 3 May 2019 Ticket Prices:      Adults – R110 Student/Pensioners – R100 Kids U12 – R20 Trade – R100 Exhibitor – R100