Fit enough for a countess, Carpaccio had become a big favourite on top restaurant menus. This simple dish of thinly sliced raw meat was invented in 1950’s by Giuseppe Cipriani from Harry’s Bar in Venice, Italy. The story goes that he had to prepare this for a countess in 1961 whose doctor instructed her to follow a strict diet of raw meats. The dish itself was named after the famous Italian painter Vittore Carpaccio whose art was recognised his use of vibrant reds. Of course this invites characterful red wines to the table and this is why we would like to invite you to visit Benguela Cove for the annual celebration of Seven Days of Shiraz and Venison. Carpaccio was traditionally served with lemon, olive oil and white truffle or Parmesan cheese and it is still enjoyed for its simplicity and bold flavour. Albeit usually made from beef, South Africans are known for putting their own spin on classic culinary favourites. With a big movement towards a healthier lifestyle and free range meats, it has become increasingly trendy to make carpaccio from game and venison. Benguela Cove will be running its offering for Seven Days of Shiraz and Venison from 10 June until 17 June, highlighting this cultivar as a winter favourite. For this our chef Annie Badenhorst has hunted down some beautiful meats to add an exotic twist to our cool climate Syrah wines. Using only the finest fillets, visitors to the tasting room can taste their taste buds on a safari of the following combinations: Moody Lagoon Red Blend 2017 paired with Ostrich Carpaccio This popular blend is led by Cabernet Sauvignon and Syrah that each takes a bow to bring this wine to life – structure and dark fruit provided by the Cabernet and those familiar spicy notes and perfume associated with Syrah. Ostrich Carpaccio is full of beautiful flavour adding a smokiness to the pairing that highlights the fruit. Benguela Cove Syrah 2017 paired with Springbok Carpaccio Fillet lovers will love the delicate flavour of Springbok. The subtle smoky aromas will also enhance the delicate fruit notes of this stylish wine, engulfed with a perfume of potpourri, cinnamon and pepper. Centre to that is fresh display of fruit set on tightly knit tannins that will complement the sulky texture of the meat. Lighthouse Syrah 2017 paired with Warthog Carpaccio Warthog meat is very tender and juicy and perhaps closer to pork than beef, but it is certainly packed with flavour and backed by the same smoky nuances. The Lighthouse Syrah is the perfect suiter with hints of pink peppercorns that dance on the surface. This wine is as evocative as the meat paired with is and will certainly leave you wanting more. For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za | +27 (0) 87 357 063 | info@benguelacove.co.za7 