“Let Hope Fly” is the theme for Africa’s biggest kite festival, the Cape Town International Kite Festival, which next takes flight on 26 – 27 October 2019 at the Zandvlei Nature Reserve in Muizenberg, in support of Cape Mental Health. This will be the 25th edition of the annual flying fiesta, with kiters – from Germany, Italy, Turkey, the UK and South Africa – flocking to the Mother City to fly their incredible kite creations, promote mental wellness and help prevent depression and suicide. Event host and beneficiary, non-profit organisation Cape Mental Health, has been using kites to generate funds and raise awareness of mental wellness since 1994. The annual kite festival is the highlight of the annual October Mental Health Awareness Month campaign, the focus of which for 2019 is suicide awareness and prevention. “With self-harm and suicide rates on the rise, particularly amongst children and young adults, we want to share a message of hope and encouragement,” said Dr Ingrid Daniels, director of Cape Mental Health and president-elect of the World Federation for Mental Health. “Just as kiters use a line to keep hold of their kites, hope can be the line to life. Sometimes you may find hope inside yourself; at other times it may need to come from a friend, a loved one or a professional. The important thing is to hold on and not let go.” Cape Mental Health provides free mental health services to children and adults, reaching more than 21 000 people each year through 22 programmes and projects. To show your support, go fly a kite at the 25th Cape Town International Kite Festival, make a donation or volunteer to help the organisation or simply share how you will #LetHopeFly on social media, tagging @CapeMentalHealth. Enjoy watching the world’s most incredible kites plus free kite-making workshops, excellent local live entertainment, crafts, stalls and rides. Pack a picnic or take your pick of festival fare from the many food trucks. For more information visit www.capementalhealth.co.za