Officially launched just under a year ago, in November 2018, Buh-Rein Retirement Village set within the award-winning Buh-Rein Estate in the Northern Suburbs of Cape Town has achieved record sales, with 142 units sold to date. The independent living apartments and the assisted living apartments on offer at Buh-Rein Retirement Village are priced from R919 900 (including transfer duty), and are being purchased at an average rate of 15 sales per month. Sales have been made up of both types of units, mostly to buyers from Cape Town. Priced from under R1 million, Buh-Rein Retirement Village cater for retirees who wish to stretch their available funds, but also to enjoy a great lifestyle now and in the future. This retirement village speaks to a segment in the market that has never been addressed before, and our sales indicate that we have certainly hit the spot in terms of demand. We are now arguably the fastest selling new retirement estate in the Western Cape.” Only 10 apartments remain on offer in phase 1, and registration has just been opened for phase 2. Apart from its highly competitive selling prices, the success of Buh-Rein Retirement Village is also linked to its comprehensive, state-of-the-art facilities. These include a Care Centre run by Medwell SA (set to open 1 November 2019), which includes options for both Frail Care and Memory Care households, as well as a Dementia Bureau. The Clubhouse features two restaurants, a heated indoor swimming pool, wellness salon, hairdresser, beautician and massage therapy, activity-orientated gymnasium with shower facilities, deli, library with Internet access, bar/refreshment area, courtyard with central water feature and ample seating, lapa with indoor and outdoor braai facilities, and a function hall which can accommodate 500 people. The gatehouse runs the security and access system as well as the security system for the village, and will include hobby areas such as a workshop for woodwork, and a studio for handcrafts such as pottery and knitting. The specialised landscaping is complete and includes large trees in courtyard areas where residents can read or relax with friends, in addition to strategically placed fountains. A doggy park is being developed for residents to walk their dogs – to enable both pets and owners to socialise. This is besides all the offerings of the greater Buh-Rein Estate itself, which include a Bossa family restaurant with swimming pool, open-air gym, 10km jogging trail, 24-hour security, camera surveillance and a multi-functional sport field. A shopping centre with Checkers as anchor tenant is set to commence construction later in 2019 and will be complete by October/November 2020. The retirement village is open to those aged over 50 years and once complete will include 461 one- and two-bedroom apartments, in buildings of three storeys each, that include lifts. The first residents started to move in on 1 August 2019, with over 50 residents currently staying in the estate.