Events and More are thrilled to announce that we will be hosting The Bubbly Festival Champagne and Bubbly to be held at the premier and upmarket Shimmy’s Beach Club at the V & A Waterfront, Cape Town. “We invite you to join “the bubbly passion” and experience a fabulous day out as you sip on some of the finest international and local Champagnes, Prosecco’s and MCC’s.  Follow us on our Facebook page to get updates on the exclusive range that will be on offer for your tasting pleasure.” https://www.facebook.com/TheBubblyFestivalChampagneandBubbly/ When:  5 October 2019 Where: Shimmy’s Beach Club Hours: 13h00 – 20h00 No under 18’s Buy your tickets: http://bit.ly/thebubblyfestival General entrance tickets R360 Kurt Schlechter Bubbly lounge brought to you by Schweppes – general entrance R80 (6 sessions)  Venue – Shimmy’s Beach Club Cape Town’s Prestigious Lifestyle Venue Shimmhy’s Beach bar with stylish and spacious lounge area’s and bars with an iconic beach which is designed for relaxing by the pool with an incredible ocean backdrop.  The beach holds a permanent stage designed for performance by top local and international DJ’s at music events. Media Partner “We are very excited to have secured a media partnership with Smile94.FM for 2019.  Our collective focus is to generate interest and awareness focusing on both pre-recorded adverts as well as live interviews.  In conjunction with the radio exposure Smile94.FM will run an extensive digital and social media campaign on their various platforms (Website, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram).” “We do not plan to have a designated VIP area this year but prior to the event will run an extensive campaign for guests to win tickets to a VIP area that will be owned and managed by Smile in partnership with our sponsors.  Only ticket winners and special nominated guests will have access to this area and the focus will be on meet and greet with winemakers and will include Champagne/MCC and food platters.  Smile will nominate an MC for the event and will be involved with choosing and securing the bands for the day.  The intention is to give exposure to up-and-coming South African bands.” Best dressed Competition Dress to impress in a striking gold and white outfit with a touch of pink to stand a chance to win the best dressed competition.  This year we are thrilled to announce that the Courtney Cousins House of Fashion will be at our event and accessorising a prize winner with their outfit  Don’t’ know what to wear? Courtney Cousins House of Fashion can assist you with an outfit suited to the theme, visit her online store at The winner of this year’s competition will win a bottle of Nicolas Feuillatte Brut Reserve Exclusive Champagne.  Nicolas Feuillatte Champagne, the number one selling Champagne Brand in the world, Reserve Exclusive Brut is an iconic Champagne that perfectly encapsulates Nicolas Feuillatte house style.  Representing the entire Champagne appellation, every inch of the region comes together to reveal a glorious showcase:  light, fresh and vibrant Champagne, effusing intense, expressive fruit, while extensive cellar-ageing brings appealing maturity to perfect style and consistency. Live Entertainment The Kiffness The Kiffness our Headline act ft Matthew Gold will entertain the guests.  The Kiffness is a live electronic act from Cape Town, South Africa.  The project was founded by David Scott in 2011.  The Kiffness makes jazzy, groovy & uplifting house music and its fast become one of South Africa’s favourite live electronice acts. ft Mathew Gold Mathew Gold is best know for this smooth and dreamy vocal.  Gold couldn’t refute the pull he felt towards music as a young boy, especially having grown up in a musical family.  Mathew’s talent for music and theatre become evident.  Mathew has collaborated with the Kfinnes on numerous occasions. The Playground Twins will keep you entertained during sets: These twins (Josh and Nate Swart) are no strangers to the Cape Town night life with residencies at Cape Town’s hottest night clubs, Shimmy Beach Club  They have their ear tuned to high energy electro house, deep house, sometimes a disco groove might feature and when they are pushing the boundaries on the dancefloor, they might pull out some techno.  For special occasions you might find them with an African style Percussionist to add that live element.