“What fascinates me over and over again, is the ability of food and wine to heighten experiences, liven up conversations and elevate one’s life experience in general,” says Denise Cowburn-Levy, co-owner of The Kitchen Collective. Where there is energy and passion, there is always growth and expansion. What started out as an extension of a love of cooking and entertaining, outperformed any expectations and Ginger & Lime took off with a huge bang from the very beginning. The timing and the formula was perfect; a fabulous, unique venue, an excellent state of the art, well-equipped kitchen and an enthusiastic, talented team lead by a visionary leader, Denise Cowburn-Levy. Weekly courses were booked out well in advance and guests chefs came to play, adding a different depth to the offering. Products were launched successfully, special occasions celebrated joyfully, team building was enjoyed by many corporates, outside events were catered for and innovative recipes were developed. The requests kept coming in were always new and varied, as the space and the team proved adaptable to the needs of the foodies out there. The demand for a blank, professionally equipped kitchen hire space increased, as did the requests to host larger events for up to 100 people, and the team just knew the time was right to expand even further. And so it began, and as happens when something is right, it is seems to flow effortlessly. Kim and Katy have worked tirelessly on this incredibly exciting project. Endless meetings, long to do lists and so much excitement! The perfect 380sqm premises were found, incredibly generous sponsors came on board in assisting us to set up the 3 new kitchen spaces, and it was all systems go and full steam ahead. The result is spectacular! “There is nothing like this in Cape Town yet. A truly innovative space that provides a central space for professionals and foodies to bond, share and learn,” says Kim Jordan, Co-owner of The Kitchen Collective. “The Kitchen Collective Main Stage is a larger version of the Ginger & Lime kitchen, allowing for various set ups, from cinema style seating, to individual work stations and the usual signature collaborative interactive cooking experiences that are so enjoyed by our guests.” “We also host long table catered special occasions. Again, the space is a blank canvas, and suitable for many purposes, including film and stills shoots.” “The Kitchen Collective, perfectly situated in the City Bowl of Cape Town, will now act as the main hub and central venue of Ginger and Lime and Salt and Sage. However, these venues will still be available for exclusive hire for private and corporate functions. There really is no stopping this dynamic, passionate, dedicated team from making this the best kitchen venue in Cape Town. Over the past 5 years they have a proven track record for integrity and for over delivering on what they offer and you just know you can trust them with your event. For more information www.thekitchencollective.co.za