Dr Rolene Strauss returns as host for the Pink Polo teaming up with Nico Panagio, well known South African personality. For the tenth consecutive year, polo serves as a platform to create awareness for breast cancer at the Pink Polo presented by Biomedical Emporium on Saturday, 9 November 2019 when the much-anticipated event returns to Val de Vie Estate. Dr Rolene Strauss first hosted the Pink Polo in 2018 and for the first time this year was the MC and auctioneer at Pink Rise. She is a former Miss World, graduated medical doctor, director of RevitaHealth and a Val de Vie Estate resident. Nico Panagio’s path first crossed with Pink Polo when he was MC for the event in 2016. He is an South African actor, presenter and businessman; widely known for presenting Season 7 of Survivor South Africa. The charming duo is a talented combination of strength and compassion in facilitating awareness for breast cancer in our nation. This year, some of South Africa’s most influential celebrities join to unite behind a message of hope and healing for the 10th consecutive year of ‘Polo with a Purpose.’ The Pink Polo legacy members include Minki van der Westhuizen, Donnalee Roberts, Ivan Botha, Tanya van Graan, Sechaba G, Siba Mtongana are joined by our MC duo. Biomedical Emporium, pioneers in skin care and professional treatments, is the headline sponsor for the first time for this prestigious event. Dr Judey, Biomedical Scientist and CEO of Biomedical Emporium remarks that: “As a partner of Pink Polo, we aim to provide awareness of optimal and aesthetic healing using some of the most advanced biotechnology for breast cancer patients who have had mastectomy surgery. Furthermore, our range of cosmeceutical products contain safe and gentle ingredients suitable for use for patients undergoing chemotherapy or radiation, specifically to assist with skin conditions associated with the side effects of cancer treatments.” Guests can look forward to a day in the picturesque Winelands filled with all things pink and polo-inspired, with many memorable moments in store to share with friends, family or colleagues. The event pays tribute to survivors of breast cancer and serves as a platform to raise awareness for a disease that is most prevalent in women, but also affects a high number of men. Polo attracts an enthusiastic, diverse and loyal community. It is exhilarating for spectators who not only enjoy a high-speed game but watch it with all senses fired up. It is exciting on the eye, with the sound of thundering hooves and the crack of mallet against ball adding to the thrill of the game. Luxury fashion label, ElricoZarr by Elrico Bellingan, will adorn the female MC, Pink Polo Legacy Guests and models in the bespoke fashion show as official Fashion Partner. Argentinian luxury polo attire brand, La Martina, will ensure the male MC and models are the epitome of style for a day at the polo as Polo Fashion Partner. The dress code for this year’s event is ‘Authentic Polo’, encouraging guests to dress chic yet comfortable for an afternoon under the summer sun on the lush green grass of the Val de Vie Estate polo field. For more information visit www.pinkpolo.co.za