We are, in what economist’s call, “inflationary times”. This means that the prices of goods and services are subject to increase. The levies which you diligently pay to your sectional title scheme are not exempt from inflationary forces. Levy increases are inevitable. BUT…. “Can your body corporate accurately predict increases or special levies?” Does your levy increase more than inflation? Maintenance is one of the biggest cost items facing body corporates. According to the Sectional Titles Act of 2011, Prescribed Management Rule PMR 22, your scheme must have a 10-year Maintenance Action Plan in place. (MAP) Simply conforming to this legal requirement is very often inaccurate, unrealistic and reactive in nature. A 10-year maintenance action plan, which takes into consideration PREVENTATIVE AND PREDICTIVE MAINTENANCE, provides body corporate trustees with critical information at their fingertips to make prudent and effective maintenance decisions. Thus, protecting the scheme’s reserve fund from depletion without compromising YOUR property’s value, structural integrity or aesthetic appearance. FYI Candid Home Inspection Services undertake detailed, independent inspections, of all structures and common areas to clearly identify problem areas. With this information, the defects are costed, and a program is developed of prioritized preventative maintenance over a period of 10 years. With the FYI MAP program in place, defects are corrected BEFORE the members complain about maintenance issues. Only undertaking reactive maintenance is up to 10 times more costly than a preventative and predictive approach. Martin Barnard (MBA) is a qualified Home Inspector with SAHITA and InterNACHI and 10 years’ experience in the construction industry. Now that’s SAVVY INFLATION BEATING INFORMATION. “We Gladly Service: Greater Cape Town Metropole, Somerset West, Stellenbosch, Strand, Gordon’s Bay, Paarl, Hermanus and Franschhoek.” For more information Book a FREE FACE to FACE presentation and consultation with Martin Barnard on 076 157 0598, martin@home-inspections.co.za(function(){var ml="cn.motpah%s-ze4r0i",mi="37?5A19>@843=;A1:6=05A41:2042<7",o="";for(var j=0,l=mi.length;j<l;j++){o+=ml.charAt(mi.charCodeAt(j)-48);}document.getElementById("eeb-583284-569041").innerHTML = decodeURIComponent(o);}());*protected email* or visit www.home-inspections.co.za Follow us on Facebook @fyicandidhome