If you’d like to make a difference in the lives of South Africa’s future generations whilst having fun, participate in Distance for Difference’s (D4D) THE500. This bi-annual fundraising event, which takes place at NH The Lord Charles Hotel in Somerset West on 12 – 13 October 2019, and promises to test your fitness and perseverance on a bike. THE500 offers four participating options: The Full Rider (10 x 50km laps), the Lap Rider (cycle one or more laps of 50km each), the 24-Hour Spinning Team and lastly the 24-Hour Solo Spinner. The outside event starts at NH The Lord Charles Hotel, with the route taking riders through Stellenbosch and Kuils River, and back to the hotel. The night laps are partly off-road at Lourensford Wine Estate. Cyclists will stretch themselves to the limit of their abilities to cycle 500km in 24 hours with short breaks every two hours. Concurrently running on the hour, there will be 24 spinning classes of 45 minutes each presented by Virgin Active’s energetic and encouraging instructors at the hotel. Corporates and social teams are invited to book a bike for only R950 and occupy it for 24 hours.
Says Stéphan Pieterse, founder of D4D: “THE500 is a fundraising event and we encourage all participants and organisations to help us reach our R1 Million fundraising target for this year’s event. It is possible to make this a reality. Nothing is impossible!” Pieterse continues that Distance for Difference’s aim is to create a better future for children by focussing on family life and education. He continues: “Together we can make a huge difference by using sport as a platform to raise awareness and funds for children’s charities. Fifty percent of the funds raised via THE500 will be donated to PATCH Helderberg, while the other 50% will go towards various children charities supported by D4D. PATCH provides child survivors of sexual abuse with 24-hour crisis intervention, free professional therapy, court preparation, as well as providing prevention and awareness programmes in surrounding schools within the Helderberg area of Cape Town. This event will provide many children with the treatment and support they so desperately need.” “The vibe created by the spinners in the hotel act as a much needed energy boost and encouragement for THE500 cyclists! Join in the fun and help make a substantial difference. You’ll experience a great sense of satisfaction, accomplishment and gratefulness,” Pieterse concludes.