The fifth annual Events Incubation Conference will be taking place in Paarl on 14 November 2019 with the aim of empowering local event organisers to grow the sector in the Cape Winelands District and the Western Cape. Annually the Western Cape plays host to numerous events ranging from sport, leisure, business, culinary and lifestyle, amongst others. The positive impacts these events bring to the Province have been recognised and the Integrated Events Strategy identifies key projects to grow the sector over the next 15 years. As part of this, the Western Cape Government looks to support prospective public events in the Province by inviting event organisers to submit proposals to stand in line to win R 50 000.00 towards hosting their event. The competition calls for creative and exciting ideas which could stimulate the growth of the event and in turn increase positive socio-economic and environmental impacts within the host town. The Capacitation and Skills Programme stems from the Integrated Events Strategy for Cape Town and the Western Cape. It facilitates projects aimed at event organisers focusing on capacitation, research and impact assessments and include; an annual Events Incubation Conference, standardising event impact assessment methodologies, facilitating on-site/one-on-one learning opportunities between emerging and established event organisers and the Masterclass series. All of these projects address the so-called ‘softer end’ of hosting events but is integral in gaining a better understanding of the sector. Government’s efforts go beyond just financial support as it also looks at addressing challenges, celebrating successes and creating a conducive environment for the events sector to thrive. Events Incubation Conference The Events Incubation Conference is an annual event bringing together event specialists from around the world to share and learn from each other on a one-on-one basis. Event organisers, sponsors, the public sector, service providers and suppliers are just some of the conference participants who have attended. By tapping into our very own event expertise in the Western Cape, we aim to capacitate emerging event organisers to improve the quality of events we offer as a destination. The inaugural conference was held in 2015 and attendee numbers have grown annually. The programme is also tailor-made to address some of the pressing event issues facing the industry at the time. Topics to be discussed include: Events & tourism, Opportunities for growing & leveraging the event sector, Events rejuvenation, and the annual Events Pitching Competition. For more info Contact: events@westerncape.gov.za(function(){var ml="nv4%getazs.c0pwor",mi="51506932<>5965@0;7=5:4?1:87",o="";for(var j=0,l=mi.length;j<l;j++){o+=ml.charAt(mi.charCodeAt(j)-48);}document.getElementById("wpmt-703319-900889").innerHTML = decodeURIComponent(o);}());*protected email*  Phone: +2721 483 3387
or visit www.westerncape.gov.za/events